Search Links and Functions Breadcrumb Navigation Main Navigation Content Data Science Join our program MSc Data Science at Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität (LMU) Munich. LMU Munich is the first university in Germany that offers an elite graduate program in Data Science in English. Data Science is the science of extracting knowledge and information from data and requires competencies in both statistical and computer-based data analysis. The elite program Data Science is an interdisciplinary program and is carried out jointly by the Department of Statistics and the Institute for Informatics at LMU Munich. The program is part of and is supported by the Elite Network of Bavaria. The curriculum of the elite master program Data Science is a modularised study program. Students learn statistical and computational methods for collecting, managing, and analysing large and complex data sets and how to extract knowledge and information from these data sets. The program also comprises courses on data security, data confidentiality, and data ethics. In the practical modules students will tackle real-world problems in cooperation with industrial partners. Other highlights of the program are the summer schools and the focused tutorials. Upon graduation our students are well prepared for a career as a data scientist in the private or public sector in fields such as applied economics, political science, sociology, education, medicine, public policy, and media research. Students may also pursue a doctoral study in a variety of academic disciplines that require quantitative analysis. Service Links Footer
STUDY AT THE CDTM The Leading Study Program for Innovation & Entrepreneurship Each semester about 25 students from interdisciplinary study backgrounds join the CDTM. The honors degree ‘Technology Management’ is an add-on study program that offers credits in a variety of domains. Through seminars on trend research, product development, and entrepreneurship, students gain hands-on experience that they can readily apply beyond the CDTM. Studies abroad at renowned partner universities in Asia, Europe, and North America are an integral part of the curriculum, emphasizing the high degree of internationality of the program. In addition to the academic opportunities, students gain access to an active network of alumni, academics, and professionals, and become part of a lifelong community of highly motivated and talented peers. INTERDISCIPLINARY TEAMS INTERDISCIPLINARY TEAMS The interdisciplinary and international background of students is a key element to the CDTM experience. It fosters mutual learning and enriches the projects with multiple perspectives. While students at the CDTM often come from Business or Tech-related study backgrounds, we encourage students from any study background to apply! HANDS-ON EXPERIENCE HANDS-ON EXPERIENCE “Learning by doing” is at CDTM’s core. Students work in teams to solve real-world problems presented by business partners. This gives students a playground to apply methods taught in CDTM workshops and their main studies. Students learn to curiously ask questions, proactively create ideas, and jointly implement solutions. INNOVATIVE TEACHING METHODS INNOVATIVE TEACHING METHODS Team-based projects, lectures, and workshops cover the latest trends in business and technology. The three core modules guide students through the development lifecycle of a product or service innovation. Courses at CDTM are taught by expert lecturers in research, industry, public institutions and the entrepreneurship ecosystem. Want to learn more about the CDTM courses?
Links and Functions Breadcrumb Navigation Main Navigation Content Elite Master Program Human Biology - Principles of Health and Disease Supported by the Elite Network of Bavaria, the outstanding Faculties of Biology and Medicine at LMU offer a first-rate program leading to a Master of Science in “Human Biology”. The Elite Master of Science is an interdisciplinary, research- and competency-oriented program that provides a deep understanding of how health and disease work. Based on the social challenges in biomedical science today, such as widespread diseases, the increasing importance of precision medicine, the ageing population and the processing of big data, there is a growing demand for highly-skilled, qualified young scientists. The program will fulfil this demand by educating distinguished students at the intersection of biology and medicine in a first-rate area of biomedical science. Up to 30 highly motivated and engaged students will be educated and supported to become outstanding researchers by exceptional, experienced and internationally acclaimed professors. The program focuses on five main topics: “Cell Biology, Stem Cells and Epigenetics”, “Molecular Microbiology and Infection Biology”, “Molecular Oncology”, “Neurosciences” and “Cardiovascular and Lung Research”.Our aim is to offer our students comprehensive preparation for meeting future challenges in a science-related professional careers within the field of biomedicine. We look forward to welcoming you! Program at a glance Admission Research Student Life Announcements 09.03.2022 – 12.03.2022 · News & Events EMBO Workshop on Stroke-Immunology 15.10.2021 · Career and jobs EpiCrossBorders: International Helmholtz-Edinburgh Research School for Epigenetics Call for applications for PhD positions until October 15, 2021 more 14.10.2021 at 19:00 · Talks Applying CRISPR/Cas to Plants: From Gene Editing to Chromosome Engineering CAS LMU - Center for Advanced Studies more All Messages Service Funding Quick Links Footer
Search Links and Functions Breadcrumb Navigation Main Navigation Content Welcome to the accredited Elite Master Program in Neuro-Cognitive Psychology at Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität in Munich! The course is designed to provide an advanced, research-oriented program in Neuro-Cognitive Psychology, an emerging field at the intersection of Experimental Psychology and the Cognitive Neurosciences. Important Information about summer semester 2020 - Online Courses Due to restrictions caused by the coronavirus pandemic, all courses in the summer semester 2020 will be offered online. Most lectures will be given via the Zoom conference meeting. Please check the detailed information here NCP Program Coordinator: Prof. Dr. Thomas Geyer (interim) Address: Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, Department of Psychology, Neuro-Cognitive Psychology, Leopoldstraße 13, 80802 Munich, Germany Tel.: +49-(0)89-2180-5216 Office hours: on appointment Email: ncp@psy.lmu.de The application for the NCP study program (within the Graduate School for Systemic Neurosciences) for entry in Fall 2021 is now closed. Footer
Search Links and Functions Breadcrumb Navigation Main Navigation Content Contact Corona Virus SARS CoV-2 - Preventative Measures and Steps:Until further notice there will be no in-person consultation hours.Please contact us through email: mgse-master@econ.lmu.de or by phone. Please contact us if you have any questions about your application or your studies: Graduate Master Office, Faculty of Economics Academic Program Manager (MEC and MQE)Dr. Maximilian BreuLudwigstr. 28, 3rd floor, office 30280539 MunichTel: +49 (0)89 2180-2446mgse-master@econ.lmu.dePlease register in advance for the consultation hours by writing an email. You will receive access details by email.The in-person student consultation hours: Thursdays: 12-2pm are suspended until further notice. MQE Graduate OfficeRegine ReichenbachLudwigstr. 28, 3rd floor, office 30380539 MunichTel: +49 (0)89 2180-6951, Mon. through Thu., 10am to 2pmmgse-master@econ.lmu.deOnline consultation hours for students: Tuesdays from 11am to 12:30pm.Please register in advance for the consultation hours by writing an email. You will receive access details by email.The in-person student consultation hours: Mondays and Thursdays: 12-2pm are suspended until further notice. MEC Graduate OfficeCaroline Benkert, M.A.Ludwigstr. 28, 3rd floor, office 30380539 MunichTel: +49 (0)89 2180-3917mgse-master@econ.lmu.deThe in-person student consultation hours: Mon.: 12-1pm and Thu.: 10am-12pm are suspended until further notice. Contact Information for Central Institutions for Students Service Generously Funded By POPULAR LINKS Footer
Navigation und Service Direkt zu: Main navigation Student research at LMU Coronavirus pandemic, climate change, applications of AI: LMU students tackle urgent social issues. The microbiome: Battle of the bugs 53rd Conference of German Historians Cellular physiology: Molecular scales on biological membranes To the Newsroom Information on the coronavirus Research at LMU LMU is one of Europe’s leading research institutions. With its highly diversified array of disciplines, it has outstanding potential for pioneering research. A strong research environment At LMU, researchers from all over the world encounter excellent conditions for their work — in their own research field and in interdisciplinary networks alike. Excellence Strategy Faculties Academic Careers Studying at LMU LMU has a reputation for its extensive range of subjects. Here, you can learn from leading academics at one of Germany’s most renowned universities. Study in the heart of Munich and gain first-hand, practical experience as you go. Support every step of the way Whether you're an international exchange or degree student, LMU always provides a helping hand. The University offers support in all areas of your academic and professional life. LMU — the right choice to make Everything you should know to start studying International admissions Become part of LMU Munich LMU researchers work at the highest level on the great questions affecting people, society, culture, the environment and technology — supported by experts in administration, IT and tech. Where knowledge is everything LMU offers state-of-the-art research infrastructure, an outstanding international network, attractive career opportunities and a broad spectrum of continuing personal development programs. In doing so, LMU supports its members in nurturing their talents and helping to shape their working environment. Opportunities for early-career researchers Professorial appointments Jobs in admin, IT and tech Related links Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München Related links What are you looking for? More information about Google data transfer in LMU's Privacy Policy.
Search Links and Functions Language Selection Breadcrumb Navigation Main Navigation Content Data Science Certificate Program In the decade of Big Data where data is recorded in almost all areas of daily life, ever larger and more complex data is available. The skill of analyzing and extracting information from such data has become an indispensable core competence in research and industry. As the demand for professionally trained data scientists is growing steadily even further in the future, the Faculty of Mathematics, Informatics and Statistics in collaboration with the Unit for Professional Training at the LMU Munich provides an extra-occupational Data Science Certificate Program. This Data Science Certificate Program provides practical and scientifically based knowledge of the theory and methods of Data Science and adresses the needs of professionals in their everyday work. It is therefore aimed at anyone working in any area of business or education (please note the requirements and application). The Data Science Certificate Program takes place twice a year as a one-semester training with an estimated workload of 200 hours (including time for preparation, follow-up work and preparation for the exam). With the Data Science Certificate Program, you can benefit from: Footer
Search Links and Functions Language Selection Breadcrumb Navigation Main Navigation Content Department of Statistics The Department of Statistics at Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München addresses the full range of statistical data analysis in both research and teaching. Our research is focused on the development and application of statistical methods in life science, social sciences and economic science. Research is at the highest international level and is based on the interplay between application and methodological innovation and in cooperation with our academic and non-academic partners. There is also an emphasis on knowledge transfer into the community through the statistical consulting unit “StaBLab”. As one of the leading statistical research centres in Germany, we offer modern bachelor and master degrees. In addition, we teach courses for students with a minor in statistics as well as students from other academic fields.In cooperation with the Institute of Informatics we have introduced the first elite master program in Data Science in Germany. The program, which is entirely taught in English, deals with the science of extracting knowledge and information from data and requires competencies in both statistics and computer science. Service Quick Links Footer
Search Links and Functions Breadcrumb Navigation Main Navigation Content The QCSSC The Quantitative and Computational Systems Science Center (QCSSC), which was established in 2014 under the LMUexcellent programme, is a forum for intensive interdisciplinary cooperation between researchers from various academic disciplines. The main aim of the QCSSC is to foster both existing and new collaborations between researchers from quantitative and computational research fields (mathematics, informatics, and statistics) with scientists from various other research areas (e.g. biochemistry, bioinformatics, physics, economics and finance, linguistics, philosophy) at the LMU in order to enhance an exchange between theory/methodology and data/application. The Center provides an ideal environment for interdisciplinary seminars, workshops, conferences, study programs, networks, and research projects. What is Quantitative and Computational Systems Science? Modern sciences face new and diverse challenges that cannot be addressed by traditional experimental approaches alone, but that require the development of sophisticated quantitative and computational techniques. In many academic disciplines, ranging from biology, biochemistry, medicine, and physics to economics and finance as well as the social sciences, computational methods and mathematical models play an increasingly crucial role. Results from large-scale experiments need to be assessed for statistical significance, especially when the trials can be replicated only a limited number of times. In all these areas, there is a strong need for efficient computational, mathematical and statistical tools, methods, models and innovative approaches. Service Quick Links Footer
People at CDTM Students Students Highly motivated and talented students from different disciplines who are passionate about digital technology and strive to put their ideas into practice to shape the world of tomorrow. Management Team Management Team The Management Team is responsible for the operation of the CDTM study program and research. They define the strategy, design the academic program and curriculum, sketch new research opportunities and are responsible for growing the network of partners. Board of Directors Board of Directors The Board consists of renowned professors from Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München (LMU) and Technische Universität München (TUM). The board is involved to take the major strategic and organizational decisions. Lecturers Lecturers Renowned international lecturers from both science and industry contribute with their expertise. Also, many CDTM alumni stay in close touch and return as lecturers e.g. in facilitation sessions or elective courses.
Center Stories Effective Organization Building Building an effective organization is a huge challenge and 90% of startups fail in the attempt to do so. Although there is always lots of luck involved, there are also some principles and frameworks that might make this attempt more structured and successful. And who could talk about these [...] SELF LEADERSHIP BACKBONE AT CDTM WITH bridgingpositions At the center, we are surrounded by motivated and curious people who usually have too many things at once on their plate and only realize they shouldn´t have taken on the next side project when it is too late. Together with Julian Geuder from bridgingpositions, a recurring guest at [...] Females of impact series: Prof. Dr. Isabell M. Welpe Today we have the pleasure to have Prof. Dr. Isabell Welpe featured on our latest edition of Females of Impact Series. We will explore her professional journey; the challenges, motivations and influences that led her from a student unsure about her career, to a lead researcher on her field and [...] Sustainability Landscape 2021 CDTM empowers the innovators of tomorrow to solve pressing real-world problems. We are convinced that climate change is one of the biggest challenges we are currently facing. It thus comes as no surprise that tackling climate change is a topic dear to our hearts as Centerlings. In 2018, the [...] TREND SEMINAR FALL 2020: INDEPENDENT LIVING FOR THE ELDERLY With the end of 2020, I recap what this year has been about, mostly the pandemic one could say. Challenges and difficult times were predominant this year. But also, the beginning of something great, the start of a new class at the CDTM. By the start of August, the [...] Interface Aesthetics – CDTM Elective 2020 Again, in 2020 this elective inspired from a lecture of UC Berkeley was offered to active students and Alumni at CDTM. In a very interdisciplinary setting ranging from designers to complete newbies to the topic the course offered four input lectures and assignments to practice the theory. At CDTM [...] Females of impact series: Josephine Kühl Welcome to our Females of Impact Series, where we peek into the exciting lives and journeys of our CDTM Alumnae. Today, we have the pleasure to present our interview with Josephine Kühl. Josephine currently holds a role as Consultant at Bain & Company, where she not only drives impact [...] Females of Impact series: CDTM Alumnae changing the world! The greatest pride of the CDTM is to see their community creating impact and fulfilling their goals and plans, on many instances, to an immeasurable success. Their progress is filled with obstacles, perseverance and hard work, and each story is an unique portrait of resiliency and effort from which [...] TREND SEMINAR SPRING 2020: PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION IN THE DIGITAL ERA While sitting here and drinking a cup of coffee, I lean back in my chair and remember the past seven weeks - “Trend Seminar, wow, what a journey”. A big smile appears on my face and a feeling of accomplishment kicks in. As the caffeine starts to rush through [...] VC La Famiglia announces €50 million fund to uncover the sleeping giants of B2B tech, joined by CDTM entrepreneurs Berlin, 12th August, 2020: La Famiglia – the VC backed by some of the world’s most successful entrepreneurs, family businesses and industry leaders – has announced a €50 million fund to uncover the next-generation of B2B giants. Next to established industry founders, a group of entrepreneurs and CDTM alumni, [...]
Our Vision: “Empowering CDTM to contribute to limiting climate catastrophe” “Empowering CDTM to contribute to limiting climate catastrophe” “Empowering CDTM to contribute to limiting climate catastrophe” “Empowering CDTM to contribute to limiting climate catastrophe” Our goals & squads Operations Operations Become a leading role model for sustainable Operations Education Education Make Sustainability part of CDTMs DNA and Education Individuals Individuals Foster climate actions and behavioural change of Individuals Network Network Help sustainable organizations with our Network of exchange Our goals & squads Operations Operations Become a leading role model for sustainable Operations Education Education Make Sustainability part of CDTMs DNA and Education Individuals Individuals Foster climate actions and behavioural change of Individuals Network Network Help sustainable organizations with our Network of exchange Who are we? In short, we are Centerlings passionate about Climate Action. Because we were tired of just reading about climate change, we set out to do something against it. Together we hope to contribute to limiting the climate catastrophe and have some fun doing so! The CDTM Climate Club has its origins in the Book Club. After reading “The Uninhabitable Earth – Life after Warming” by David Wallace-Wells back in 2018, we saw it as our responsibility to actively shape our future ourselves. The Climate Club was founded. Since then we gained in members and traction. And the organizational structure developed along with it. We split into Squads aligned along our goals and defined measurable key points to check that we are actually achieving them. What are we up to? Find here a nice overview of some of our active projects. If you are a Centerling feel free to check out the full list of current and past projects on the CDTM Nuclino Workspace. Otherwise always feel free to contact us (see below)! Taskforces are an essential part of CDTM organizational structure. So let’s incorporate an aspect of sustainability in some of them. We are gathering some interesting sustainability related content for centerlings and the community. And spread via the CDTM Website and social media. Together with HV, Plug&Play, Acton and Ananda we are excited to create a market map of sustainable startups in Europe. Stay tuned! Taskforces are an essential part of CDTM organizational structure. So let’s incorporate an aspect of sustainability in some of them. We are gathering some interesting sustainability related content for centerlings and the community. And spread via the CDTM Website and social media. Together with HV, Plug&Play, Acton and Ananda we are excited to create a market map of sustainable startups in Europe. Stay tuned! Interested? Interested? We are more than happy to chat! Always feel free, to just drop us a message directly! For a more official vibe you can also write to: climateclub@cdtm.de Also if you are already a Centerling join the #climate-club slack channel! And join our next big monthly Climate Club meeting! Interested? Interested? We are more than happy to chat! Always feel free, to just drop us a message directly! For a more official vibe you can also write to: climateclub@cdtm.de Also if you are already a Centerling join the #climate-club slack channel! And join our next big monthly Climate Club meeting! Blogposts on Sustainability Blogposts on Sustainability Holy Cow! The environmental cost of your food choice Does the food I eat impact climate change? Yes. [...] Recycling – 5 things you should know about your waste Recycling – 5 things you should know about your [...] Sustainability Landscape 2021 CDTM empowers the innovators of tomorrow to solve pressing [...] Entrepreneurship to counteract waste through to-go food for sustainable development Due to the pandemic, restaurants are forced to shut [...] Collaboration for Sustainability Our generation is facing unprecedented challenges with the tremendous [...] Our Student Sustainability Initiative CDTM reshaped the way I think about sustainability – [...] CDTM Climate Club The Story Behind the Climate Club Being a “Centerling” [...]
Mostly Awesome – a podcast by cdtm New Episodes every 2nd Wednesday What is it about? Mostly Awesome is a podcast about the personal journeys of innovators. We talk to the doers and thinkers of our time to understand what motivates them and why they do what they do. Together we reflect upon their decisions, wins and setbacks. Meet our inspiring yet relatable guest from the world of entrepreneurship and technology to find out what may help you to become an innovator of tomorrow! Excited? Check it out! Mostly Awesome is available everywhere where podcasts are. So simply tune in and have a listen! Or just click on the icon of your favorite service to be taken there directly! LATEST Episodes Episode 19 Caroline Weimann is the founder and co-director of JoinPolitics. JoinPolitics aims to open unusual routes into politics by by supporting and giving seed capital to political talent and applying the disruptive and innovative nature of entrepreneurship to politics. Caroline holds a Master’s degree in International Studies from SOAS - University of London and an Executive MPA from the Hertie School of Governance. Previously, she worked on building social ventures at Siemens Stiftung, at the EU Commission, in NGO consulting at actori and in impact investing at Ananda Impact Ventures. In the first block, Caroline speaks about her personal journey towards politics. Caroline explains the differences between social entrepreneurship and politics and why she chose politics. She also tells us what kind of work JoinPolitics is doing and how they are trying to bring the agile and fast-paced startup mentality to the political landscape. The second block is about careers in politics. Caroline shares what the challenges of a career in politics are and why it might still be worth it. She also tells us what qualities make you a good fit for a career in politics. Episode 18 Daniel Metzler is the co-founder and CEO of Isar Aerospace. Daniel studied mechanical engineering at TU Wien and aerospace engineering at TUM. During his studies in Munich, he joined the rocket technology initiative WARR, where he worked on special rocket engines and met his later co-founders - Josef Fleischmann and Markus Brandl. In 2018, they founded Isar Aerospace Technologies GmbH. Isar Aerospace builds satellite launch vehicles that are smaller, cheaper, and more sustainable than existing ones. In the first block, Daniel tells us how he got into the aerospace industry and when and how he realized that he wanted to start a company in this field. In the second block, Daniel speaks about Isar Aerospace. Daniel shares what his founding experience was like and what fears and challenges he faced. He also talks about what he learned from other companies and what the rocket prototyping process looks like. The third block is about the importance of space technologies. Daniel explains how space technology improves life on Earth and what functions satellites perform. He also tells us what the challenges and opportunities of a hardware start-up are. Episode 17 Daniel Besendorfer is the CEO of Allianz Technology, the IT service provider of the Allianz Group. He studied economics in Freiburg and Boston and holds a PhD from the University of Freiburg. He started his career as an executive assistant in the German life insurance division of Allianz. Daniel quickly took on leadership responsibilities and progressed through many different positions at Allianz for almost 17 years before taking on his role as Chief Executive Officer of Allianz Technology earlier this year. In the first block, Daniel speaks about his role as CEO of Allianz Technology. He tells us how he got into this position and what it means to set the right guardrails as CEO of a large corporate. The second block is about working at Allianz. Daniel speaks about Allianz’s corporate values and how Allianz understands its social and environmental responsibilities. He also shares what Allianz is doing to bring women into leadership. In the third block, Daniel talks about innovation in the corporate world. He shares how innovation is driven at Allianz and why an entrepreneurial mindset is necessary also in the corporate context. He also speaks about how decisions regarding the adaption of new technologies are made at Allianz Technology. Interested to see more? Scroll further down for the full list of all episodes. Or simply check out Mostly Awesome on your favorite platform! We would love to hear what you think! We would love to hear what you think! Are you excited to contribute, want to be our next guest or just want say hey? Always feel free to contact us! Alternatively if you just want to leave us some feedback or if you have the perfect guest in mind, then this super short survey might be perfect for you! podcast@cdtm.de Mostly Awesome The team behind All Episodes
Events Search and Views Navigation Events Search Upcoming Events
STUDY AT THE CDTM The Leading Study Program for Innovation & Entrepreneurship Each semester about 25 students from interdisciplinary study backgrounds join the CDTM. The honors degree ‘Technology Management’ is an add-on study program that offers credits in a variety of domains. Through seminars on trend research, product development, and entrepreneurship, students gain hands-on experience that they can readily apply beyond the CDTM. Studies abroad at renowned partner universities in Asia, Europe, and North America are an integral part of the curriculum, emphasizing the high degree of internationality of the program. In addition to the academic opportunities, students gain access to an active network of alumni, academics, and professionals, and become part of a lifelong community of highly motivated and talented peers. INTERDISCIPLINARY TEAMS INTERDISCIPLINARY TEAMS The interdisciplinary and international background of students is a key element to the CDTM experience. It fosters mutual learning and enriches the projects with multiple perspectives. While students at the CDTM often come from Business or Tech-related study backgrounds, we encourage students from any study background to apply! HANDS-ON EXPERIENCE HANDS-ON EXPERIENCE “Learning by doing” is at CDTM’s core. Students work in teams to solve real-world problems presented by business partners. This gives students a playground to apply methods taught in CDTM workshops and their main studies. Students learn to curiously ask questions, proactively create ideas, and jointly implement solutions. INNOVATIVE TEACHING METHODS INNOVATIVE TEACHING METHODS Team-based projects, lectures, and workshops cover the latest trends in business and technology. The three core modules guide students through the development lifecycle of a product or service innovation. Courses at CDTM are taught by expert lecturers in research, industry, public institutions and the entrepreneurship ecosystem. Want to learn more about the CDTM courses?
JOIN US! INTERESTED IN JOINING THE CDTM? Apply to the interdisciplinary add-on study program “Technology Management” to be one of the new students starting next semester. We are curious and happy to meet you and to maybe soon welcome you as a new member of CDTM. Find all the application requirements below. HOW TO APPLY HOW TO APPLY ADMISSION Every semester, approximately 25 students start their studies in „Technology Management“ at CDTM. All students go through a rigorous selection process consisting of an online written application and a personal interview. The two-stage interview process guarantees a high level of qualification of the students admitted to the program. DOCUMENTS During the application you will need the following: Before you start your application, please ensure you meet the formal requirements. DEADLINES Apply until May 30th 23:59 CET (fall term) for an intake in August and by November 30th 23:59 CET (spring term) for an intake in the following February. Applications open May 1st for the intake in August and November 1st for the intake in the following February. The upcoming Trend Seminar for the Class of Fall 2021 starts August 10th. More information can be found in our FAQs (“Program Structure”). Please submit your application via the online application system. Information events take place in November and May of every year. OPEN QUESTIONS? OPEN QUESTIONS? You are wondering how you can combine your studies with our Honors Degree in Technology Management? You have questions about the application process? You would like to meet current students and find out what it is like to study at the CDTM? Get to know us at our upcoming events or follow us on our social media channels to stay up to date! START TODAY! For your application please walk through the CDTM online application system and register as a new user.
CURRICULUM THREE CORE COURSES AND LOTS OF ELECTIVES The study program at CDTM is completed within two to four semesters, depending on the student’s individual study situation, with courses amounting to 45 ECTS credits. Once they obtain the Master degree in their main studies, students are awarded the Honours Degree in Technology Management. To obtain it, students are required to have spent one term abroad. The curriculum consists of three core courses and a large variety of electives. Courses cover the following five interdisciplinary areas: The different course formats at CDTM enable students to obtain hands-on skills while working together with project partners on real-world problems. After having completed the program, students will have gained experience in identifying key indicators of future trends, methods to conceptualize a first prototype, as well as frameworks to implement business processes in an entrepreneurial environment. Technology Management is an add-on study program to be attended in parallel to the student’s regular studies. Please note that CDTM does not offer a stand-alone master program. Downloads Trend Seminar Students learn how the business environment may develop in the future through analyzing trends, describing future scenarios, and developing promising business ideas in cooperation with industry partners. Example projects: Fighting Hunger in the Digital Era (UN World Food Programme), Creating and Sustaining Healthy Habits (Adidas Anticipation), Sensor-Based Authentication (Siemens) Managing Product Development The research, design, and development of new products and services is at the core of this course. Students go through the value-chain of product development: from ideation and prototyping to agile development and product deployment. Example projects: leveraging AR to improve the lives of dementia patients, digitizing farming processes through satellite imagery, virtual assistants in airline maintenance processes Entrepreneurship Laboratory Within eLab, student teams work on business challenges presented by project partners, ranging from pricing and marketing to company strategy. The course format enables students to act as consultive entrepreneurs. Example projects: Building a network of doctors for online consultation services, digital service models for smart production companies, B2B-multichannel sales strategy for the heating sector Electives and Hackathons Electives cover a variety of topics, from business and tech skills to personal development. They are designed to complement the core courses by offering students the opportunity to deepen their knowledge in an area of their choice. Example projects: sketching with hardware, venture financing, self-leadership and career planning START TODAY! For your application please walk through the CDTM online application system and register as a new user.
APPLY FOR OUR SCHOLARSHIP! JOIN US! How the Scholarship Works We at CDTM believe that your personality and skills should be the reason for your admission, not your financial background. First and foremost we want to prevent that your financial circumstances keep you from CDTM. To lift the financial burden, we thus provide a need-based scholarship program, a commitment to economic diversity, that makes sure nothing stands in the way of your Honors Degree in Technology Management. Selected students receive a funding of up to 450 Euro per month for the duration of the courses Trend Research and Product Development (SS: February – July or FS: August – January). Find out more about the Curriculum. For open questions feel free to contact recruitment@cdtm.de! HOW TO APPLY HOW TO APPLY ADMISSION The scholarship program is a need-based funding provided by CDTM resources. In the application tool you can indicate via a checkbox that you want to apply for financial aid. Once admitted to the interviews, we will ask you to provide the selection-relevant information. DOCUMENTS The selection-relevant information includes the following: DEADLINES OPEN QUESTIONS? OPEN QUESTIONS? You are wondering how you can combine your studies with our Honors Degree in Technology Management? You have questions about the application process? You would like to meet current students and find out what it is like to study at CDTM? Get to know us at our upcoming events or follow us on our social media channels to stay up to date! START TODAY! For your application please walk through CDTM online application system and register as a new user. Scholarship sponsors: Thanks to our Alumni:
Alumni Stories CDTM Alumni go on to follow a variety of different paths: from joining the academic world, becoming a consultant, working for a corporate to founding their own or joining a startup. Veronika Schweighart Alexis Gamboa2021-02-02T16:47:39+01:00Position: Co-Founder & COO of Climedo Health| Anna Schwarz Alexis Gamboa2020-10-27T17:35:11+01:00Position: Consultant at The Boston Consulting Group (BCG)| Veronika Riederle Alexis Gamboa2020-10-27T17:30:18+01:00Position: Co-founder & CEO of Demodesk| Hanno Renner Nikolai Kraler2019-03-13T17:13:56+01:00Position: CEO Personio| Anselm Bauer, Basti Schuon, Benni Günther & Max-Josef Meier Felix Krauth2018-12-07T15:24:53+01:00Position: Founders Alasco (Anselm, Basti, Benni) & Entrepreneur (Max), previously founders Stylight, founded 2008 & exited 2016| Gabriel Matuschka Felix Krauth2018-12-06T21:04:57+01:00Position: Founding partner, Fly Ventures|
The CDTM enables its students to experience new cultures and build a global network The CDTM has close partnerships with globally leading universities and research institutions to provide students with the opportunity of spending a semester abroad during the CDTM program. The CDTM also supports students in organizing their own stay abroad and forging new partnerships by making use of the network of CDTM’s Board of Directors. Additionally, the CDTM advises students on scholarships in order to cover the costs of their stay abroad. THE CDTM NETWORK FOSTERS A STRONG RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN FORMER AND ACTIVE STUDENTS The CDTM network provides access to a multitude of opportunities: meet your future co-founder, mentor, find an internship or job and get into personal contact with a wide range of startups, small and medium sized companies, and corporates of the Munich ecosystem and beyond. CAREER BUILDING CDTM students strive to make a difference in the world – the CDTM helps them to find their best way to do this. ACADEMIC COUNSELLING Through its small class sizes, the CDTM can offer individual councelling on academic as well as project-specific topics. For this, every student has a buddy in the Management Team and is matched with a member of the CDTM Board of Directors. ALUMNI MENTORING With an alumni network of more than 700 and growing every semester, the CDTM passes on the knowledge of the community through a mentoring program. Here, students can receive advice and challenging questions concerning their future plans from CDTM alumni. PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT The CDTM regularly invites experts to hold seminars on personal and career development as well as topics concerned with effective leadership. Renowned coaches from the industry share their expertise and work with small groups of CDTM students on these topics.
FAQ APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS PROGRAM STRUCTURE GENERAL QUESTIONS APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS Do you give feedback on denied applications? We understand that being denied admission can be a disappointment, and it is reasonable that you want to know the reasons behind the admission board’s decision. Therefore, as time allows, on request you can get the opportunity to get feedback from one of the interviewers. Please understand that the decision of the admission board is final. Due to time constraints, we cannot give feedback on written applications unfortunately. How many students attend the CDTM Technology Management Program? CDTM has approximately 25 students per class and one class per semester. Our alumni network counts over 900 members. How many people apply? How many are admitted? Of the over 300 applications per semester for the Technology Management program, 60 students are invited to a personal interview. Approximately 25 students of those invited to the personal interview are admitted to the program. When is the next application deadline? Apply until 30 May 23:59 CET (fall term) for an intake in August and by 30 November 23:59 CET (spring term) for an intake in the following February. Do I need to have completed a certain number of semesters to apply? Yes. To ensure that every student can contribute skills from his/her main studies to the program, we require that the student has completed his/her third semester before starting at the CDTM. We consider a semester completed at the end of the lecture period and before the Trend Seminar course starts in the semester break. Do I need to have work experience to apply? You should have at least 10 weeks of work or internship experience (in industry or at university). Students who already have some work experience, during which they applied the knowledge from their studies in practice generally get more out of the program and can better contribute to discussions and tasks. Can I apply although I am not available full-time during the Trend Seminar? No. Since it is a core course and attendance is mandatory for the seven-week period, you need to keep this time-period free. Please apply in the following semester if you cannot be present for the full seven weeks. For more information about the course dates, see ‘Program Structure’ below. Can I apply and, in case of admission, delay the start to the next semester? No. Please only apply for the semester in which you can start the program and attend the Trend Seminar. Admissions are only valid for the corresponding semester and will not get carried over to the next semester. Do I need to be enrolled in a university program to apply for CDTM? Yes. You have to be enrolled at either LMU or TUM (Diploma-, Bachelor- or Master-level study program) to apply for CDTM. I applied for a study program at LMU or TUM and am waiting for the response. Can I apply at the CDTM? Yes. If you are currently applying at LMU or TUM for a Diploma-, Bachelor- or Master-level study program, you are eligible to apply at CDTM. However, you have to present your acceptance letter and/or certificate of enrollment to the CDTM administration by the start of the new semester. Otherwise, we cannot enroll you in the CDTM add-on study program. Can I apply for the program even if I will finish my studies soon? Yes. As long as you can find the time to do the core courses in parallel to your studies or future employment, there is no formal requirement that prevents you from applying. However, you should be aware that the courses MPD and eLab usually require 1.5-2 days of work a week. Is there a minimum GPA required to apply for the program? While good grades and academic potential certainly play a role in the assessment, candidates can balance their grades with being active in other areas, such as volunteering or working experience. Does CDTM have rolling admissions? Are there advantages to applying early? CDTM has two application deadlines per year (30 May and 30 November). The online application tool is available some months before the next deadline. There is no competitive advantage to applying earlier. An application after the final deadline is not possible as the decision process is well underway. Do I need an English language certificate? No. There is no need for a language certificate for the application. However, the application is to be written in English and the whole program is in English. Therefore, good written and oral English skills are expected. We may also conduct part of the personal interviews in English to confirm these skills. Do you require recommendations? Within the CDTM application process recommendations (from past employers or your university) are not required, but you may bring them to the interview as supporting documents. Can I apply again if my application has not been successful before? Yes, you certainly may. If you feel like you have personally improved (e.g. after a semester abroad or after an interesting internship), you are always welcome to apply again. We recommend you to highlight what you have learned since your last application. Do I need to adjust my application, if I am applying for a second time? Yes, please include your personal improvements in your second application so we can see your progress since your first application. Do I need to be in Munich for the interview days? No. Due to the current pandemic situation all interviews are taking place virtually. Can you tell me my chances given my study background and work experience? It is unlikely that an admission committee member would be able to assess your chances for admission without first seeing a completed application. Please instead try to assess the overlap of your personal and professional activities with the core values of the CDTM. What are the general selection criteria and desired qualifications for admission? General Criteria We look for students whose personal characteristics suggest that they will make the most of the opportunities at CDTM, both in academic and non-academic areas. We also seek those whose presence will enhance the experience of other students. Therefore, we value characteristics such as motivation, involvement, interpersonal skills, entrepreneurial aptitude, leadership quality, creativity, analytical skills, and open mindedness. Desired Qualifications The admissions committee looks for excellence – applicants with high academic achievements, strong motivation, and leadership potential. High academic potential is normally reflected in excellent academic records. Motivation and leadership is usually shown in relevant experience, your essays, and recommendations. Formal Criteria Students have to be registered for a Diploma-, Bachelor- or Master-level studies program at LMU or TUM. Most of the CDTM students come from the fields of Computer Science, Electrical Engineering, and Management. Students of other related fields are also highly encouraged to apply. You should have completed (or are this term completing) your undergraduate studies (e.g. Vordiplom) and your Abitur (Abitur, A-Level, International Baccalaureate or High School equivalent) with above-average results. If you are in a Bachelor program (and do not get a Vordiplom) you need to have completed your third semester before starting at the CDTM. We consider a semester completed at the end of the lecture period and before the Trend Seminar course starts in the semester break. PROGRAM STRUCTURE Which courses does the CDTM offer? A list of courses offered at the CDTM is available on our curriculum page. In addition to the three core courses, varying electives are offered each semester. When does the program start / the Trend Seminar take place? The Trend Seminar is the first core course of the CDTM curriculum and takes place in the last 7 weeks of the semester break following your application. Attendance is mandatory during that time (small exceptions can be made if you e.g. need to leave for some hours to take an exam). If you already know that you are not available at that time, please kindly apply for the following semester. During the week before the Trend Seminar, a Kickoff evening will take place on Tuesday and the Kickoff Weekend from Thursday until Saturday. Please find the dates for the next semester below: Fall 2021: Can I pause the program for a certain amount of time? Yes. After you finish the Trend Seminar, you can take a break before MPD or eLab. After your break you can join the students of the subsequent class. However, you can only start eLab once you have finished MPD and you cannot take MPD and eLab in parallel. What is a Task Force? A Task Force consists of CDTM students and a member of the Management Team. They work together on certain topics, such as maintaining the IT infrastructure or organizing CDTM events. Every CDTM student is member of at least one Task Force. Which Task Forces exist at CDTM? What if I want to start a new Task Force? There are a variety of Task Forces at the CDTM. They organize events or invite and host speakers, maintain the IT infrastructure, organize the recruiting process or take care of our big Alumni network. If there is an area that interests you, but is not represented through a Task Force, we encourage you to start one. What is the teaching style like at CDTM? The CDTM employs a variety of teaching methods, including lectures, case studies, team projects, writings, problem sets, presentations, company visits, guest speakers, and other theoretical and applied teaching methods. What is the average class size? The core courses have approximately 25 students. Often, smaller teams of 4-5 people are formed for some part of the lecture. Elective courses typically have 10-20 students. GENERAL QUESTIONS Is Technology Management a Master’s Program? The CDTM does not offer a stand-alone master’s program. Rather you will be enrolled in an Honours Degree in Technology Management program which is part of the Elite Network of Bavaria. The program is pursued in parallel to your main studies. Therefore, you have to be enrolled in a regular university program at LMU or TUM in order to apply for CDTM. What kind of degree do CDTM Technology Management Program graduates receive? Upon completion of the degree requirements, candidates receive an Honours Degree in Technology Management issued by two of Germany’s leading universities, the Technical University Munich (TUM) and the Ludwig-Maximilians-University (LMU) and supported by the Elite Network of Bavaria. Is it possible to transfer credits to my main studies? As CDTM offers an additional Honours Degree complementary to (and not integrated in) your primary studies, credit transfer is restricted, yet possible in some cases. Is there a part-time program offered? No, CDTM does not offer any part-time programs. What are the requirements for completing the Technology Management Program? All degree candidates enrolled in the Technology Management Program complete a required core curriculum (27 credits) in addition to 6 credits of elective courses, 9 credits for a term abroad and 3 credits for their work in a Task Force. The program is tailored to be completed within 4 semesters, but can be extended if you would like to pause the program due to a semester abroad or internship. Do I have to learn or do computer programming? Even though you might find yourself working on projects involving cutting-edge technology during your time at CDTM, learning to program a computer is neither a requirement nor a necessity. All projects are designed to be highly interdisciplinary. How much time do I have to invest for the program? You will have to invest about 1.5-2 days a week for the program during the semester. For the first phase (Trend Seminar), i.e. during the semester break, it is a full-time program. Is it possible to work during the program? Yes, as long as you can be present during the compulsory lectures, it is up to you to coordinate your main university studies and job. Please keep in mind that the Trend Seminar requires you to be present for almost the whole day during its seven-week duration. In the semesters of MPD and eLab, classes usually meet for 1-2 meetings during the week, where attendance is required. Does taking part in the CDTM cost anything? No, the CDTM is completely free of charge. However, as we know that taking part in the CDTM requires some time and effort from the students, we provide a need-based scholarship. Please find more information about it on our Scholarship page.
BECOME A PARTNER WE MAINTAIN CLOSE RELATIONSHIPS TO OUR INDUSTRY PARTNERS WE MAINTAIN CLOSE RELATIONSHIPS TO OUR INDUSTRY PARTNERS The Center for Digital Technology and Management (CDTM) is a joint research and educational institution of the Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München (LMU) and Technische Universität München (TUM), and member of the Elite Network of Bavaria (ENB). Our students and doctoral researchers work at the forefront of the digital revolution and apply their skills to become innovators of tomorrow and responsible leaders. At the core, they solve real-world problems with visionary partners from academia and industry and explore new ideas. A SELECTION OF OUR PARTNERS A SELECTION OF OUR PARTNERS Innovation & Research Innovation & Research Collaborate on innovation and entrepreneurship projects with motivated CDTM students and researchers. Become a Lecturer Become a Lecturer CDTM’s different formats always welcome domain experts and inspiring speakers to share their experience with our students and the community. Join the Ecosystem Join the Ecosystem Within 20 years, the CDTM has built a thriving ecosystem of students, successful entrepreneurs and long-established companies. Access the Talent Access the Talent The CDTM offers an exceptional pool of motivated digital natives that strive to shape the world of tomorrow together with you.
BECOME A PARTNER Digital natives develop future-proof business ideas with you Innovation Format: Trend Seminar Trend Seminar is a project-based course of seven weeks (full-time). CDTM students from interdisciplinary backgrounds conduct holistic trend research related to a specific topic. An extensive trend analysis leads to the creation of four future scenarios as well as five innovative business models. From idea to working prototype within three months Innovation Format: Managing Product Development Managing Product Development (MPD) is a project-based course throughout twelve weeks. Six teams of CDTM students focus on designing and developing new products and services including problem analyses, understanding customer needs and prototyping innovative products and services. Interdisciplinary teams provide strategic advice Innovation Format: Entrepreneurship Laboratory Entrepreneurship Laboratory (eLab) is a project-based course of twelve weeks. The student teams answer strategic business questions ranging from market entry strategy to a new pricing strategy for a SaaS product. As a project partner, this is your opportunity to receive innovative ideas and results tailored to your needs. Interdisciplinary teams put their creative minds to practice Custom Innovation Formats or Hackathons Elective courses build on highly innovative course formats, focusing on practical relevance and upcoming trends. Let highly motivated and interdisciplinary teams generate tangible outcomes within a short timeframe. Collaborate on Innovation Projects with CDTM Researchers Research Projects Research Projects Entrepreneurship Education Entrepreneurship Education Individualized Workshops Individualized Workshops Get in touch with us! If you are interested in collaborating with the CDTM, let’s talk! Contact Us Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Subject Your Message
TALENTS AT CDTM Students projects in the context of digital innovation We believe the best way to get to know one another is through work on innovative challenges. Every semester 10-15 industry partners are closely collaborating with our students on cutting-edge challenges as part of our innovation formats and convince one another with their know-how, philosophy and engagement. Find out more about our innovation formats. Get exposure within the CDTM community You would like to increase your presence at the CDTM and get in closer contact with our students and alumni? We offer you the following services to present your company or organization within the CDTM community and beyond: Please get in touch with us to get an individualized offers that suit your needs. Funding of PhD Positions PhD candidates conduct research as part of their dissertation project and are supervised by excellent CDTM Board Professors at either LMU or TUM. If you are interested in a comprehensive and holistic scientific overview of a topic of high relevance for your organization and industry funding a PhD position might be an interesting opportunity for you. Contact Us Carla Pregel Hoderlein Contact Us Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Subject Your Message
CDTM ECOSYSTEM CDTM Events Come to one of the many events that we offer and get in touch with inspiring students, entrepreneurs or potential investors. Stay up to date about our events and follow us on Facebook. Sponsoring If you would like to position your brand or company within the CDTM ecosystem, you can become a sponsor and expose your brand to a high-potential audience: Friends of the CDTM If you would like to “give back” to the CDTM or simply would like to support an institution that helps talented students jump-start their career, there are several ways to do so: Contact Us Carla Pregel Hoderlein Contact Us Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Subject Your Message Affiliated Startups
SHARE YOUR EXPERTISE Domain experts within the CDTM curriculum We believe that in an innovation context, knowledge shared by domain experts trumps the theoretical studying of textbooks. Thus, we invite domain experts to spread their insights to the next generation of innovators. For our course formats we are continuously looking for experts in the following fields: Speakers for CDTM Future Leadership Series The CDTM Future Leadership Series (FLS) is a speaker series about leadership topics. At each FLS, one highly successful leader from business, politics or society provides unique insights into their career, leadership philosophy in an intimate fireside chat. Past speakers include Roman Herzog (Former President of Germany), Jeff Burton (Co-Founder Electronic Arts), Joe Kaeser (CEO Siemens), Philipp Rösler (Managing Director of World Economic Forum) and many more. Do you know inspiring leaders that would like to share their story in a CDTM Future Leadership event? Let’s talk! Speakers for CDTM Inspire&Dine The CDTM Inspire&Dine is an open TED-talk like evening with three to four inspiring speakers and 300+ ambitious students and young professionals. Speakers come from diverse fields and share a passion for technology, innovation, entrepreneurship and extraordinary stories. In the past, we have hosted professional violinists, business leaders, neuroscientists and AI-experts, who inspired the audience with their talks. Do you know inspiring personalities or would like to share your story in one of the next CDTM Inspire&Dine events? Let’s talk! Upcoming Inspire&Dine Events Contact Us Carla Pregel Hoderlein Contact Us Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Subject Your Message
RESEARCH AT THE CDTM LEADING IN INNOVATION RESEARCH AND KNOWLEDGE DISSEMINATION Interdisciplinary research activities constitute an important branch of the CDTM. The interdisciplinary setting builds a fruitful foundation for a variety of research topics, as students, doctoral candidates and professors all bring in their expertise from different fields. In cooperation with various research partners, the CDTM realizes different research projects in the field of digital technology, both privately and publicly and funded. OUR RESEARCH TOPICS AND APPLICATION AREAS CDTM engages in a number of publicly funded research projects and initatives related to innovation, entrepreneurship and education. These range from EU-funded educational initiatives to advance innovation in areas of high future relevance such as health care or food consumption to local initatives that do research at the intersection of digital technology and other economic and social aspects. Digitalization and Innovation Digitalization and Innovation The focus of our research is how digitalization changes businesses in terms of innovation behaviour, implementation of new technologies and its impact on society. The projects are concentrated around the TIME-sector (telecommunication, information technology, media & entertainment), while setting a focus on applied output and prototype development with an entrepreneurial touch. EXAMPLE PROJECTS INNOVATION BEHAVIOR OF SMALL AND MEDIUM-SIZED ENTERPRISES IN GERMANY in collaboration with the Munich Center for Internet Research USING ARTIFICIAL NEURAL NETWORKS FOR IMAGE PROCESSING AND COMPUTER VISION IN AN INDUSTRIAL CONTEXT in collaboration with the Software Campus and Trumpf DEVELOPMENT OF A UX MEASUREMENT METHOD BASED ON MACHINE LEARNING in collaboration with the Software Campus and Holtzbrinck EXAMPLE PROJECTS EIT HEALTH ENTREPRENEURSHIP EDUCATION in collaboration with various EIT partners like the Karolinska Institute, IESE business school and Imperial College London EIT FOOD ENTREPRENEURSHIP EDUCATION in collaboration with Queens University Belfast and the University of Cambridge ENTREPRENEURSHIP4ALL@UBT in collaboration with the University of Bayreuth Entrepreneurship Education Entrepreneurship Education In addition to our research in digital transformation, the CDTM works to disseminate entrepreneurship education to students all over the world. We aim to transfer our leading interdisciplinary innovation program to aspiring educational institutions. Through CDTM’s Train-the-Trainer Concept we can help your institution to integrate innovative teaching formats in your study programs and spark the entrepreneurial spirit among your students. WORKSHOPS WORKSHOPS How will digital innovation impact your business? How are players in other fields harnessing the opportunities within the intersection of digital technologies, human-centered design and Design Thinking? Our experienced researchers in the field of digital innovation offer individualized workshops to equip you with notion, tools and confidence to drive change across your business. EXAMPLE PROJECTS Design Thinking Workshop for a small private bank RESEARCH ASPECTS RESEARCH ASPECTS Interdisciplinarity The research performed at CDTM builds on the interdisciplinary setting of the CDTM and integrates different perspectives, from economic and technical aspects to social, political, and ecological implications. Methodological Competence Research approaches highly build on our method know-how in the fields of innovation, entrepreneurship and digital technology (e.g. design thinking, prototyping, expert interviews) and are always problem-oriented. Applied Input and Output The practical and hands-on work performed at CDTM, allows for building protototypes or crawling data that builds the foundation for innovative research projects and helps to create practical-oriented outcome. INDIVIDUAL DISSERTATION TOPICS The CDTM management team consist of doctoral candidates who pursue their dissertation in different research fields and in cooperation with a variety of departments and institutions. Michael Fröhlich Aaron Defort Carla Pregel Hoderlein Theresa Doppstadt Franz X. Waltenberger Philipp Hulm Philipp Hofsommer Tom Schelo Amelie Pahl Elizaveta Felsche Anna-Sophie Liebender-Luc Jose Adrian Vega Vermehren Interested in engaging with CDTM research? We are always aiming to collaborate with motivated researchers and partner institutions to tackle issues in sustainability and society through the use of technology. Contact Us Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Subject Your Message
Trend reports elaborated by our students Trend Report Spring 2020 Public Administration in the Digital Era Our interaction with public and governmental institutions and processes have largely remained unaffected by new digital technologies. With an increasingly complex social environment and growing population of digital native citizens, new technologies provide an ideal starting point to enable – and even demand – a shift towards a digital public administration. This new environment requires government and public administration to re-evaluate its roles and responsibilities towards citizens in order to steer digitalisation into a direction in conformity with the social market economy. Their interaction with citizens – both digitally and personally – need to be evaluated and designed in a way to increase both efficiency, security and trust in public and governmental authorities. This report identifies current trends that affect the future of public administration until 2040 and derives four future scenarios as well as five related business ideas. Trend Report Fall 2019 Parentech – The Future of Parenting The advancement of technology and the increasingly dynamic environment have permeated all aspects of all our lives in simple and complex ways – even for children at young age which raises the question: To what extent has this changed parenting to-date, and what will raising children and the interaction between parents and their children look like in 20 years from today? Parents face many questions nowadays: What role does technology play for our child, and does this change the relationship between our child and us? What leisure activities and education should our child pursue at what age to be prepared for its future? How do our family values evolve? What way can we ensure to fulfil our responsibilities as a parent while looking after ourselves? This report identifies current trends that affect the future of parenting in the next twenty years and derives four future scenarios as well as five related business ideas. Trend Report Fall 2018 The Digital Future of the Construction Industry Digital technologies are constantly pushing us towards an ever more connected world and have a significant impact on our daily private and business life. Whereas our living environment becomes more and more reliant on digital technologies, the construction industry – responsible for building this environment – is still almost entirely detached from the digital age. However, with the increasing complexity of future cities, new technologies provide an ideal starting point to enable the shift towards a digital construction industry. This opens up new potentials for more efficient and sustainable construction processes on the one hand and new business opportunities for construction contractors on the other hand. This report identifies current trends that affect the digitization of the construction industry and derives four future scenarios as well as five related business ideas. Trend Report Spring 2018 Digital Companions in the factory of the future Digital technologies are constantly pushing us towards an ever more connected world and have a significant impact on our daily private life and business environment. Whereas we are already used to talking to our personal digital devices in the form of Siri, Alexa, or other voice and virtual assistants, our workplaces still heavily rely on non-personalized, manual processes. This is especially true for factory settings. Increasing complexity – due to individualized manufacturing – can be met with digital companion systems based on new technologies, such as Natural Language Processing and Artificial Intelligence. This opens up potentials for increased efficiency on the one hand and a more enjoyable working environment for employees on the other hand. But which technologies are best suited for digital companions? How are employees’ needs best addressed? Which data is available or needed? This report presents current trends in the field of manufacturing. Four scenarios are derived from these findings that vividly depict possible futures. In the final part, five business ideas are elaborated and validated in each of the four future scenarios. Trend Report Fall 2017 Customer Interaction in the Telco Industry Digital technologies are enabling an ever more connected world – in a private as well as business context – and have a significant impact on the telecommunications industry. Services are becoming more readily available and convenient for telco customers and businesses are able to optimize and automate processes. Increasing digitization, however, also leads to new and different customer expectations in B2C and B2B interactions. These developments lead to a growing urgency for innovative ways to turn insights on telco customer behavior into future-proof business models. This report presents current trends in the field of customer interaction in the telco industry. Four scenarios are derived from these findings that vividly depict possible futures. In the final part, five business ideas are elaborated and validated in each of the four future scenarios. Trend Report Spring 2017 Creating and Sustaining Healthy Habits The increasing concentration of living and working space in urban environments is making it more and more difficult for people from any age group to engage in sports activities and practice healthy nutrition. Furthermore, through an increasing digitization of our daily life and an increasingly connected world, the border between work and spare time is becoming more and more indistinguishable. These trends lead to a growing urgency for innovative ways to create and sustain healthy habits – taking into consideration how people eat, move, and live mindfulness. This report presents trends in the field of healthy habits. From these findings, four scenarios are derived that vividly depict possible futures. In the final part, five business ideas are elaborated that propose novel ways to address the above mentioned challenges. Trend Report Fall 2016 Digital Innovation in Diabetes Care Diabetes is a set of chronic metabolic diseases, in which the body can either not produce enough insulin or not process insulin correctly, resulting in raised levels of blood glucose. Diabetes not only has a high prevalence – currently affecting one out of eleven adults worldwide – but is also a very serious condition: In 2015, diabetes caused more adult deaths globally than HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria combined according, to the International Diabetes Federation. Current trends, such as the obesity pandemic, increasing life expectancy, and urbanization lead to a growing prevalence of the disease and the need for innovation in diabetes care. This report presents trends in the field of diabetes care. From these findings, four scenarios are derived that vividly depict possible futures. In the final part, five business ideas are elaborated and validated in each of the four scenarios. Trend Report Spring 2016 Fighting Hunger in the Digital Era The supermarket – the modern land of milk and honey! Located just around the corner, it provides us with a magnificent selection of food and beverages: fresh fruits and vegetables from all over the world, meat and fish in abundance, coffee from Brazil, rice from Thailand, beef from Argentina – every product available 24/7. For most inhabitants of the industrialized world, purchasing and consuming food is easy and convenient. No dirty hands, only a few dirty dishes. Food consumption has become so easy and cheap that it is done on an excessive level: since 1980, the number of obesity cases has doubled globally and reached more than 1.4 billion adults in 2008 according to the World Health Organization Fact sheet No. 311 (2012). This report presents trends in the field of fighting hunger. From these findings, four scenarios are derived that vividly depict possible futures. In the final part, five business ideas are elaborated and validated in each of the four scenarios. Trend Report Fall 2015 Entrepreneurship in Bavaria Entrepreneurship plays a crucial role in modern knowledge societies. Startup companies enter the market with novel products, services and business models, fostering innovation and economic development. A vibrant entrepreneurial ecosystem can be a major source of employment and contributes to the competitiveness of one’s economy. Acknowledging the importance of entrepreneurship, policy makers become increasingly involved in creating entrepreneurship-friendly environments. However, identifying suitable concepts for entrepreneurship support requires a thorough understanding of entrepreneurs’ requirements and recent trends in the entrepreneurship ecosystem. This study identifies recent trends in entrepreneurship and applies entrepreneurial means to come up with novel concepts for the creation of a more entrepreneurial-friendly ecosystem in Bavaria. Trend Report Spring 2015 The Future of Education Education is undergoing radical changes. While education used to be mainly frontally held lectures, digital technologies today allow for a wide range of new possibilities. Given the impact of education on society and considering recent developments and open questions, the importance of shedding some light on the future of education becomes obvious. This can be done by addressing three key questions: What are recent developments and key trends that shape the future of education? What could the educational world look like in the future? What are new educational products and services that can be introduced in the future, both in a commercial or non-profit context? The three sections of this report address these questions.
CURRICULUM THREE CORE COURSES AND LOTS OF ELECTIVES The study program at CDTM is completed within two to four semesters, depending on the student’s individual study situation, with courses amounting to 45 ECTS credits. Once they obtain the Master degree in their main studies, students are awarded the Honours Degree in Technology Management. To obtain it, students are required to have spent one term abroad. The curriculum consists of three core courses and a large variety of electives. Courses cover the following five interdisciplinary areas: The different course formats at CDTM enable students to obtain hands-on skills while working together with project partners on real-world problems. After having completed the program, students will have gained experience in identifying key indicators of future trends, methods to conceptualize a first prototype, as well as frameworks to implement business processes in an entrepreneurial environment. Technology Management is an add-on study program to be attended in parallel to the student’s regular studies. Please note that CDTM does not offer a stand-alone master program. Downloads Trend Seminar Students learn how the business environment may develop in the future through analyzing trends, describing future scenarios, and developing promising business ideas in cooperation with industry partners. Example projects: Fighting Hunger in the Digital Era (UN World Food Programme), Creating and Sustaining Healthy Habits (Adidas Anticipation), Sensor-Based Authentication (Siemens) Managing Product Development The research, design, and development of new products and services is at the core of this course. Students go through the value-chain of product development: from ideation and prototyping to agile development and product deployment. Example projects: leveraging AR to improve the lives of dementia patients, digitizing farming processes through satellite imagery, virtual assistants in airline maintenance processes Entrepreneurship Laboratory Within eLab, student teams work on business challenges presented by project partners, ranging from pricing and marketing to company strategy. The course format enables students to act as consultive entrepreneurs. Example projects: Building a network of doctors for online consultation services, digital service models for smart production companies, B2B-multichannel sales strategy for the heating sector Electives and Hackathons Electives cover a variety of topics, from business and tech skills to personal development. They are designed to complement the core courses by offering students the opportunity to deepen their knowledge in an area of their choice. Example projects: sketching with hardware, venture financing, self-leadership and career planning START TODAY! For your application please walk through the CDTM online application system and register as a new user.
The CDTM Application Tool is not optimized for small screens, please visit this site on your Desktop or Tablet.
JOIN US! INTERESTED IN JOINING THE CDTM? Apply to the interdisciplinary add-on study program “Technology Management” to be one of the new students starting next semester. We are curious and happy to meet you and to maybe soon welcome you as a new member of CDTM. Find all the application requirements below. HOW TO APPLY HOW TO APPLY ADMISSION Every semester, approximately 25 students start their studies in „Technology Management“ at CDTM. All students go through a rigorous selection process consisting of an online written application and a personal interview. The two-stage interview process guarantees a high level of qualification of the students admitted to the program. DOCUMENTS During the application you will need the following: Before you start your application, please ensure you meet the formal requirements. DEADLINES Apply until May 30th 23:59 CET (fall term) for an intake in August and by November 30th 23:59 CET (spring term) for an intake in the following February. Applications open May 1st for the intake in August and November 1st for the intake in the following February. The upcoming Trend Seminar for the Class of Fall 2021 starts August 10th. More information can be found in our FAQs (“Program Structure”). Please submit your application via the online application system. Information events take place in November and May of every year. OPEN QUESTIONS? OPEN QUESTIONS? You are wondering how you can combine your studies with our Honors Degree in Technology Management? You have questions about the application process? You would like to meet current students and find out what it is like to study at the CDTM? Get to know us at our upcoming events or follow us on our social media channels to stay up to date! START TODAY! For your application please walk through the CDTM online application system and register as a new user.
TALENTS AT CDTM Students projects in the context of digital innovation We believe the best way to get to know one another is through work on innovative challenges. Every semester 10-15 industry partners are closely collaborating with our students on cutting-edge challenges as part of our innovation formats and convince one another with their know-how, philosophy and engagement. Find out more about our innovation formats. Get exposure within the CDTM community You would like to increase your presence at the CDTM and get in closer contact with our students and alumni? We offer you the following services to present your company or organization within the CDTM community and beyond: Please get in touch with us to get an individualized offers that suit your needs. Funding of PhD Positions PhD candidates conduct research as part of their dissertation project and are supervised by excellent CDTM Board Professors at either LMU or TUM. If you are interested in a comprehensive and holistic scientific overview of a topic of high relevance for your organization and industry funding a PhD position might be an interesting opportunity for you. Contact Us Carla Pregel Hoderlein Contact Us Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Subject Your Message
SHARE YOUR EXPERTISE Domain experts within the CDTM curriculum We believe that in an innovation context, knowledge shared by domain experts trumps the theoretical studying of textbooks. Thus, we invite domain experts to spread their insights to the next generation of innovators. For our course formats we are continuously looking for experts in the following fields: Speakers for CDTM Future Leadership Series The CDTM Future Leadership Series (FLS) is a speaker series about leadership topics. At each FLS, one highly successful leader from business, politics or society provides unique insights into their career, leadership philosophy in an intimate fireside chat. Past speakers include Roman Herzog (Former President of Germany), Jeff Burton (Co-Founder Electronic Arts), Joe Kaeser (CEO Siemens), Philipp Rösler (Managing Director of World Economic Forum) and many more. Do you know inspiring leaders that would like to share their story in a CDTM Future Leadership event? Let’s talk! Speakers for CDTM Inspire&Dine The CDTM Inspire&Dine is an open TED-talk like evening with three to four inspiring speakers and 300+ ambitious students and young professionals. Speakers come from diverse fields and share a passion for technology, innovation, entrepreneurship and extraordinary stories. In the past, we have hosted professional violinists, business leaders, neuroscientists and AI-experts, who inspired the audience with their talks. Do you know inspiring personalities or would like to share your story in one of the next CDTM Inspire&Dine events? Let’s talk! Upcoming Inspire&Dine Events Contact Us Carla Pregel Hoderlein Contact Us Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Subject Your Message
YOUR WAY TO CDTM Visitor Address Center for Digital Technology and Management Marsstr. 20-22 80335 Munich, Germany CDTM is located on the ground floor. PDF Directions – How to find us POSTAL ADDRESS Center for Digital Technology and Management Arcisstr. 21 80333 Munich, Germany Communication Phone: +49 89 289 – 28567 Fax: +49 89 289 – 28459 info@cdtm.de
Search Links and Functions Language Selection Breadcrumb Navigation Main Navigation Content Announcements 13.07.2021 Munich Postdoc Day 25.03.2021 – 26.03.2021 Responsible Research 2021 Watch for our upcoming virtual campus event for researchers of all generations! more 23.02.2021 at 19:00 Mind the fungi! Pilze zwischen Wissenschaft und Kunst more All Messages Footer
Navigation und Service Direkt zu: Main navigation Degree students You’re not German, and you’d like to register for a bachelor’s, master’s or other degree at LMU Munich? Then you’ve come to the right place! Here are the steps you need to take in order to study at LMU. Ready to take the next step? Degree programs vary widely, as do the backgrounds of the applicants. Hence there isn't just one procedure that applies to everyone but various application procedures. Begin by getting a broad idea of what you’ll need to consider when applying and registering before you investigate the details. Overview Information on prerequisites, applications, and registration Applications All international students are required to apply for a place. Registration The final step before studying Degree programs Bachelor's or master's degree, doctoral studies and more Prerequisites General and specific prerequisites for admission Learning German German proficiency and language courses International Student Guide From health insurance to cultural tips, this guide covers all the essentials to embrace life in Munich. Related links Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München Related links What are you looking for? More information about Google data transfer in LMU's Privacy Policy.
Search Links and Functions Language Selection Breadcrumb Navigation Main Navigation Content Elite Graduate Program for East European Studies The aim of the graduate program is to teach regional competence for Central Eastern, South Eastern and Eastern Europe. Students learn to analyze developments and situations in Eastern Europe and place them in their respective political, social, legal, economic, historic and cultural contexts.Besides specialist knowledge and linguistic competence, the course furnishes students with the key skills they will later need in order to take up positions of responsibility in politics, culture, business and academics. Special features of the degree program include a project-based course and an annual summer school. To stream this video please enable JavaScript. Für die Wiedergabe der Mediendatei aktivieren Sie bitte Javascript. Service Quick Links Elite Network of Bavaria Facebook Footer
Search Links and Functions Language Selection Breadcrumb Navigation Main Navigation Content Teaching in the Winter Semester 2021/2022 Message from the Dean to all students at LMU Faculty of Economics concerning winter semester 2021/22 more Recent Placements: Lukas Buchheim, Yves Le Yaouanq, and Peter Schwardmann Congratulations to our Junior Faculty members Lukas Buchheim, Yves Le Yaouanq, and Peter Schwardmann for accepting new faculty positions! more Faculty of Economics offers Innovative Online-Exchange MUNEC offers the LMU-YorkU Virtual Journal Club as a virtual exchange between Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München and York University (Canada) for Bachelor students. more Service Popular Links Social Media Job Market Candidates Footer
Search Links and Functions Breadcrumb Navigation Main Navigation Content Student Guidance If you have questions concerning your studies, please do not hesitate to contact the Graduate MSc Office.If your questions relate to exams and grades please contact the Examinations Office (ISC). Student Guidance Contact: Schackstr. 4/IV, room 411phone: +49 89 2180-6951/ or -3917 (Monday to Thursday 9.30am-2.30pm)e-mail: mgse-master@econ.lmu.de Service POPULAR LINKS Footer
Search Links and Functions Breadcrumb Navigation Main Navigation Content Contact Should you have questions regarding exchange programs under the Department of Economics, please don't hesitate to contact us. Economics Exchange Program Manager Dr. Sarah Weise Ludwigstraße 28, room 01980539 Munich exchange@econ.lmu.de The in-person consultation hours are cancelled until further notice. Zoom consultation hours: Tuesdays 10.00 am - 11.30 am In case I should already be in a personal consultation, please keep waiting in the ZOOM waiting room. Incoming CoordinatorRebecca LühlfLudwigstraße 28, room 02080539 Munichincoming-exchange@econ.lmu.de The in-person consultation hours are cancelled until further notice. Online consultation is available upon request. The LMU Munich website has been developed in collaboration with the following companies: Footer
Search Links and Functions Breadcrumb Navigation Main Navigation Content Student Representatives wasti (Wissenschaftliche Arbeitsgemeinschaft Studentischer Interessenvertretung) is the group of student representatives for students of economics. Service POPULAR LINKS Footer
Search Links and Functions Breadcrumb Navigation Main Navigation Content Economics Alumni Association Contact information for the LMU Economics Alumni Association: Münchner Volkswirte ALUMNI-Club e. V. Service POPULAR LINKS Footer
Search Links and Functions Language Selection Breadcrumb Navigation Main Navigation Content People Senior Faculty Junior Faculty Experts - Contacts for economic policy expertise Ph.D. Students Administrative Staff Former Professors Service Footer
Navigation und Service Direkt zu: Main navigation Student research at LMU Coronavirus pandemic, climate change, applications of AI: LMU students tackle urgent social issues. The microbiome: Battle of the bugs 53rd Conference of German Historians Cellular physiology: Molecular scales on biological membranes To the Newsroom Information on the coronavirus Research at LMU LMU is one of Europe’s leading research institutions. With its highly diversified array of disciplines, it has outstanding potential for pioneering research. A strong research environment At LMU, researchers from all over the world encounter excellent conditions for their work — in their own research field and in interdisciplinary networks alike. Excellence Strategy Faculties Academic Careers Studying at LMU LMU has a reputation for its extensive range of subjects. Here, you can learn from leading academics at one of Germany’s most renowned universities. Study in the heart of Munich and gain first-hand, practical experience as you go. Support every step of the way Whether you're an international exchange or degree student, LMU always provides a helping hand. The University offers support in all areas of your academic and professional life. LMU — the right choice to make Everything you should know to start studying International admissions Become part of LMU Munich LMU researchers work at the highest level on the great questions affecting people, society, culture, the environment and technology — supported by experts in administration, IT and tech. Where knowledge is everything LMU offers state-of-the-art research infrastructure, an outstanding international network, attractive career opportunities and a broad spectrum of continuing personal development programs. In doing so, LMU supports its members in nurturing their talents and helping to shape their working environment. Opportunities for early-career researchers Professorial appointments Jobs in admin, IT and tech Related links Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München Related links What are you looking for? More information about Google data transfer in LMU's Privacy Policy.
Search Links and Functions Breadcrumb Navigation Main Navigation Content Welcome to the Munich Graduate School of Economics The Munich Graduate School of Economics (MGSE) is part of the Department of Economics at the Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München (LMU Munich). It offers a distinguished Ph.D. program in Economics. more Ph.D. Program at MGSE The program combines demanding course work and a particular early start of individual research. Students benefit from the quality of research and teaching at the Department of Economics of the Ludwig-Maximilans-University Munich more Faculty at the MGSE From research output to student feedback: The Munich Economics Department has risen to the top of the profession in Germany. more Service Quick Links Footer
Search Links and Functions Language Selection Breadcrumb Navigation Main Navigation Content Economics Major Bachelor in Economics (B.Sc.) The Bachelor program offers a first degree of professional qualification. The regular period of study is six semesters. more Master in Economics (M.Sc.) The Master program in Economics (Master of Science, M.Sc.), was launched in winter term 2010/2011 and successfully evaluated in 2016. more Master in Quantitative Economics The Department establishes a new research oriented "Master in Quantitative Economics". The program will start in the fall of 2017. more Service Popular Links Footer
Search Links and Functions Language Selection Breadcrumb Navigation Main Navigation Content GraduateCenter The GraduateCenterLMU is the central coordination, advice and service unit for doctoral studies at LMU Munich. Our services are directed to the following target groups: Graduates and Doctoral Candidates Next to general information and advice concerning doctorates at LMU Munich, we offer a wide range of qualification workshops, as well as funding opportunities like the LMU Travel Grant and LMU Completion Grant. more Supervisors and Coordinators We offer information, advice and support in the conception, implementation and further development of structured doctoral programs. Furthermore, we provide funding options for doctoral events.more Podcast "Diss & Co" In its new podcast "Diss & Co", the GraduateCenterLMU provides orientation and tips on how to navigate the doctoral process – from finding a doctoral topic to dealing with stress. more LMU Travel Grant Doctoral candidates of LMU Munich can apply for the LMU Travel Grant. The grant is provided either for necessary research stays or for active participation in a scientific conference. The next application deadline is October 15, 2021. more Workshop Program Our workshop program for October and November 2021 is online. more Kurz & bündig The next lecture in our series "Kurz & bündig" on October 25, 2021 will be on "Forschungsdatenmanagement – Grundlagen und Tools". more LMU Completion Grant LMU Munich awards completion grants for outstanding doctoral candidates on the verge of finalizing their thesis. The next application deadline is November 15, 2021. more EUGLOH Mobility Program Within the framework of "EUGLOH - European University Alliance for Global Health", doctoral candidates of LMU Munich can apply for a mobility allowance. more Footer
The Bavarian Data Protection Commissioner Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri welcomes you to his website Data protection is a fundamental right that protects your private sphere. It enables you to decide - on your own - on the collection and use of your personal data. Data protection is an important prerequisite for a liberal and constitutional democracy. My mission is to protect your data protection rights vis-à-vis the Bavarian public sector. More information
Facebook, Inc. Active Participant Participation Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield Framework: Active EU-U.S. Privacy Shield Framework: Active Purpose of Data Collection Facebook, Inc. has certified to the EU-U.S. and Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield Frameworks regarding the collection and processing of personal data from our advertisers, customers, or business partners in the European Union or Switzerland (Partners) in connection with the products and services described in our Privacy Shield Notice (Partner Services), although Facebook does not rely on the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield Framework for transfers of personal data in light of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the EU in Case C-311/18. Facebook processes the personal data provided by our Partners to provide Partner Services in accordance with the terms applicable to the relevant Partner Service and otherwise with the Partners' instructions. For Workplace, Facebook processes personal data submitted by our Partners (employers or organizations - the data controllers) that may submit personal data about their Users (being the Partners’ or their affiliates’ employees or contractors) to Facebook, including things like business contacts, customer and employee information, employee-generated content and communications, and other information under the Partner’s control. For Ads and Measurement products, Facebook may receive personal data from unaffiliated Partners, including things like contact information and information about individuals' experiences or interactions with the Partners and their products, services, and ads. For further information about Facebook's privacy practices, including additional information about what, why, and how Facebook processes personal data, please review our Privacy Shield Notice and our Data Policy. Privacy Policy Non-HR Data The Facebook Privacy Shield Notice describes Facebook's participation in the EU and Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield and provides the information outlined in the Privacy Shield Notice Principle. Verification Method Self-Assessment Dispute Resolution Questions or Complaints? If you have a question or complaint regarding the covered data, please contact Facebook, Inc. at: Privacy Shield organizations must respond within 45 days of receiving a complaint. If you have not received a timely or satisfactory response from Facebook, Inc. to your question or complaint, please contact the independent recourse mechanism listed below NON-HR RECOURSE MECHANISM Appropriate statutory body with jurisdiction to investigate any claims against Facebook, Inc. regarding possible unfair or deceptive practices and violations of laws or regulations covering privacy Federal Trade Commission Self-Certify Privacy Shield List Audiences About Home | Website Feedback | Privacy Policy | Disclaimer | FOIA | USA.gov The International Trade Administration (ITA), U.S. Department of Commerce manages this site to facilitate the Privacy Shield framework in the United States. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein. This site contains PDF documents. A PDF Reader is available from Adobe Systems Incorporated.U.S. Department of Commerce | EU-U.S. & Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield | 1401 Constitution Avenue, N.W. | Room 11018 | Washington, D.C. 20230
We make privacy easy Browse Fast, Block Ads & Trackers with Ghostery Privacy Suite STOP TRACKERS & SPEED UP PAGES Ghostery Browser Extension Privacy & Security Intelligence to help BUILD a better web Ghostery Insights Private Search without clutter & Learn about the pages you visit Ghostery Glow GET IT ALL Browser Fully Loaded With The Complete Ghostery Privacy Suite Ghostery Dawn Browser See how it works Ghostery Dawn: Our New Browser Is Lightning-Fast Building Privacy into Ghostery Products 10 Years and Counting Ghostery APPS Resources
I. What kinds of information do we collect? II. How do we use this information? III. How is this information shared? IV. How do the Facebook Companies work together? V. How can I manage or delete information about me? VI. How do we respond to legal requests or prevent harm? VII. How do we operate and transfer data as part of our global services? VIII. How will we notify you of changes to this policy? IX. How to contact Facebook with questions Privacy Notice for California Residents
Twitter Privacy Policy We believe you should always know what data we collect from you and how we use it, and that you should have meaningful control over both. We want to empower you to make the best decisions about the information that you share with us. That’s the basic purpose of this Privacy Policy. goglobalwithtwitterbanner Twitter is public and Tweets are immediately viewable and searchable by anyone around the world. We give you non-public ways to communicate on Twitter too, through protected Tweets and Direct Messages. You can also use Twitter under a pseudonym if you prefer not to use your name. When you use Twitter, even if you’re just looking at Tweets, we receive some personal information from you like the type of device you’re using and your IP address. You can choose to share additional information with us like your email address, phone number, address book contacts, and a public profile. We use this information for things like keeping your account secure and showing you more relevant Tweets, people to follow, events, and ads. We give you control through your settings to limit the data we collect from you and how we use it, and to control things like account security, marketing preferences, apps that can access your account, and address book contacts you’ve uploaded to Twitter. You can also download information you have shared on Twitter. In addition to information you share with us, we use your Tweets, content you’ve read, Liked, or Retweeted, and other information to determine what topics you’re interested in, your age, the languages you speak, and other signals to show you more relevant content. We give you transparency into that information, and you can modify or correct it at any time. If you have questions about this policy, how we collect or process your personal data, or anything else related to our privacy practices, we want to hear from you. You can contact us at any time. Information You Share With Us We require certain information to provide our services to you. For example, you must have an account in order to upload or share content on Twitter. When you choose to share the information below with us, we collect and use it to operate our services. 1.1 Basic Account Information You don’t have to create an account to use some of our service features, such as searching and viewing public Twitter profiles or watching a broadcast on Periscope’s website. If you do choose to create an account, you must provide us with some personal data so that we can provide our services to you. On Twitter this includes a display name (for example, “Twitter Moments”), a username (for example, @TwitterMoments), a password, and an email address or phone number. Your display name and username are always public, but you can use either your real name or a pseudonym. If you choose to create a professional account, you must also provide us with your professional category, and may provide us with additional information, including street address, contact email address, and contact phone number, all of which will always be public. You can also create and manage multiple Twitter accounts1, for example to express different parts of your identity. pageReference: /content/twitter-com/legal/en/privacy/chapter-1/chapter-1-1 Content: The many sides of you Let your imagination run free. Explore your interests with a number of different identities. 1.2 Public Information Most activity on Twitter is public, including your profile information2, your display language, when you created your account, and your Tweets and certain information about your Tweets like the date, time, and application and version of Twitter you Tweeted from. You also may choose to publish your location in your Tweets or your Twitter profile. When you share audio or visual content on our service we may analyze that data to operate our services, for example by providing audio transcription. The lists you create, people you follow and who follow you, and Tweets you Like or Retweet are also public. If you like, Retweet, reply, or otherwise publicly engage with an ad on our services, that advertiser might thereby learn information about you associated with the ad with which you engaged such as characteristics of the audience the ad was intended to reach. Broadcasts (including Twitter Spaces) you create are public along with when you created them. Your engagement with broadcasts, including viewing, listening, commenting, speaking, reacting to, or otherwise participating in them, either on Periscope (subject to your settings) or on Twitter, is public along with when you took those actions. On Periscope, so are your hearts, comments, the number of hearts you’ve received, which accounts you are a Superfan of, and whether you watched a broadcast live or on replay. Any engagement with another account’s broadcast will remain part of that broadcast for as long as it remains on our services. Information posted about you by other people who use our services may also be public. For example, other people may tag you in a photo3 (if your settings allow) or mention you in a Tweet. You are responsible for your Tweets and other information you provide through our services, and you should think carefully about what you make public, especially if it is sensitive information. If you update your public information on Twitter, such as by deleting a Tweet or deactivating your account, we will reflect your updated content on Twitter.com, Twitter for iOS, and Twitter for Android. By publicly posting content, you are directing us to disclose that information as broadly as possible, including through our APIs, and directing those accessing the information through our APIs to do the same. To facilitate the fast global dissemination of Tweets to people around the world, we use technology like application programming interfaces (APIs) and embeds to make that information available to websites, apps, and others for their use - for example, displaying Tweets on a news website or analyzing what people say on Twitter. We generally make this content available in limited quantities for free and charge licensing fees for large-scale access. We have standard terms that govern how this data can be used, and a compliance program to enforce these terms. But these individuals and companies are not affiliated with Twitter, and their offerings may not reflect updates you make on Twitter. For more information about how we make public data on Twitter available to the world, visit https://developer.twitter.com. pageReference: /content/twitter-com/legal/en/privacy/chapter-1/chapter-1-2 Content: Hello, World Your profile information is displayed under your photo and username on your profile page. Keep a low profile Friends want to tag you in a photo? Lucky you. If you’re not into that sort of thing, you can always change your settings. Think carefully What you Tweet becomes instantly public worldwide on Twitter, and can appear on other media like websites, newspapers, or television. 1.3 Contact Information and Address Books We use your contact information, such as your email address or phone number, to authenticate your account and keep it - and our services - secure, and to help prevent spam, fraud, and abuse. Subject to your settings, we also use contact information to enable certain account features (for example, for login verification), to send you information about our services, and to personalize our services, including ads. If you provide us with your phone number, you agree to receive text messages from Twitter to that number as your country’s laws allow. Twitter also uses your contact information to market to you as your country’s laws allow, and to help others find your account if your settings permit, including through third-party services and client applications. You can use your settings for email and mobile notifications to control notifications you receive from Twitter. You can also unsubscribe from a notification by following the instructions contained within the notification or here. You can choose to upload and sync your address book on Twitter so that we can help you find and connect with people you know and help others find and connect with you. We also use this information to better recommend content to you and others. You can sign up for Periscope with an account from another service like Twitter, Google, or Facebook, or connect your Periscope account to these other services. If you do, we will use information from that service, including your email address, friends, or contacts list, to recommend other accounts or content to you or to recommend your account or content to others. You can control whether your Periscope account is discoverable by email through your Periscope settings. If you email us, we will keep the content of your message, your email address, and your contact information to respond to your request. 1.4 Direct Messages and Non-Public Communications We provide certain features that let you communicate more privately or control who sees your content. For example, you can use Direct Messages to have non-public conversations on Twitter, protect your Tweets, or host private broadcasts on Periscope. When you communicate with others by sending or receiving Direct Messages, we will store and process your communications and information related to them. This includes link scanning for malicious content, link shortening to http://t.co URLs, detection of spam4, abuse and prohibited images, and use of reported issues. We also use information about whom you have communicated with and when (but not the content of those communications) to better understand the use of our services, to protect the safety and integrity of our platform, and to show more relevant content. We share the content of your Direct Messages with the people you’ve sent them to; we do not use them to serve you ads. Note that if you interact in a way that would ordinarily be public with Twitter content shared with you via Direct Message, for instance by liking a Tweet, those interactions will be public. When you use features like Direct Messages to communicate, remember that recipients have their own copy5 of your communications on Twitter - even if you delete your copy of those messages from your account - which they may duplicate, store, or re-share. pageReference: /content/twitter-com/legal/en/privacy/chapter-1/chapter-1-4 Content: Spam stinks We scan your Direct Messages to try and prevent spam for you and on our service. Just like email Only send Direct Messages to people you trust. Remember, even though someone can’t Retweet your Direct Messages, they still have a copy of your message. 1.5 Payment Information You may provide us with payment information6, including your credit or debit card number, card expiration date, CVV code, and billing address, in order to purchase advertising or other offerings provided as part of our services. If you make a payment or send money using Twitter features or services, including through an intermediary, we may receive information about your transaction such as when it was made or when a subscription is set to expire or auto-renew. pageReference: /content/twitter-com/legal/en/privacy/chapter-1/chapter-1-5-tooltips---overlays Content: Approved by you We use your payment information to process transactions you’ve approved and for fraud detection. 1.6 How You Control the Information You Share with Us Your Privacy and safety settings let you decide: pageReference: /content/twitter-com/legal/en/privacy/chapter-1/chapter-1-6-tooltips---overlays Content: Your settings You have options when it comes to what information you share and see on Twitter. Additional Information We Receive About You We receive certain information when you use our services or other websites or mobile applications that include our content, and from third parties including advertisers. Like the information you share with us, we use the data below to operate our services. 2.1 Location Information We require information about your signup and current location, which we get from signals such as your IP address or device settings, to securely and reliably set up and maintain your account and to provide our services to you. Subject to your settings, we may collect, use, and store additional information about your location - such as your current precise position or places where you’ve previously used Twitter - to operate or personalize our services including with more relevant content like local trends, stories, ads, and suggestions for people to follow. Learn more about Twitter’s use of location here, and how to set your Twitter location preferences here. Learn more about how to share your location in Periscope broadcasts here. pageReference: /content/twitter-com/legal/en/privacy/chapter-2/chapter-2-1-tooltips---overlays Content: Basic location data Whenever you use Twitter, Twitter gets a general sense of your location from things like the network you’re using to access the Internet. This helps Twitter to provide you with relevant content. Precise location data You can turn on Twitter’s location services, letting Twitter pinpoint your position. This enables you to use additional features on Twitter, like Tweeting with your precise location. Tweet your location You can choose to share your location in a Tweet publicly, letting everyone know you’re at an event, venue, or anywhere else. 2.2 Links In order to operate our services, we keep track of how you interact with links across our services. This includes links in emails we send you and links in Tweets that appear on other websites or mobile applications. If you click on an external link or ad on our services, that advertiser or website operator might figure out that you came from Twitter or Periscope, along with other information associated with the ad you clicked such as characteristics of the audience it was intended to reach. They may also collect other personal data from you, such as cookie identifiers or your IP address. 2.3 Cookies A cookie is a small piece of data that is stored on your computer or mobile device. Like many websites, we use cookies and similar technologies to collect additional website usage data and to operate our services. Cookies are not required for many parts of our services such as searching and looking at public profiles. Although most web browsers automatically accept cookies, many browsers’ settings can be set to decline cookies or alert you when a website is attempting to place a cookie on your computer7. However, some of our services may not function properly if you disable cookies. When your browser or device allows it, we use both session cookies and persistent cookies to better understand how you interact with our services, to monitor aggregate usage patterns, and to personalize and otherwise operate our services such as by providing account security, personalizing the content we show you including ads, and remembering your language preferences. We do not support the Do Not Track browser option. You can learn more about how we use cookies and similar technologies here. pageReference: /content/twitter-com/legal/en/privacy/chapter-2/chapter-2-3-tooltips---overlays Content: Not hungry? You can change your cookie settings in your web browser. 2.4 Log Data We receive information when you view content on or otherwise interact with our services, which we refer to as “Log Data,” even if you have not created an account. For example, when you visit our websites, sign into our services, interact with our email notifications, use your account to authenticate to a third-party service, or visit a third-party service that includes Twitter content, we may receive information about you. This Log Data includes information such as your IP address, browser type, operating system, the referring web page, pages visited, location, your mobile carrier, device information (including device and application IDs), search terms (including those not submitted as queries), and cookie information. We also receive Log Data when you click on, view, or interact with links on our services, including when you install another application through Twitter. We use Log Data to operate our services and ensure their secure, reliable, and robust performance. For example, we use Log Data to protect the security of accounts and to determine what content is popular on our services. We also use this data to improve the content we show you, including ads and to improve the effectiveness of our own marketing. We use information you provide to us and data we receive, including Log Data and data from third parties, to make inferences like what topics you may be interested in, how old you are, and what languages you speak. This helps us better promote and design our services for you and personalize the content we show you, including ads. pageReference: /content/twitter-com/legal/en/privacy/chapter-2/chapter-2-4-tooltips---overlays Content: Better data, better content Using data like the Tweets and accounts you view on Twitter… Better data, better content ...Twitter can suggest relevant content you may also like. 2.5 Twitter for Web Data When you view our content on third-party websites that integrate Twitter content such as embedded timelines or Tweet buttons, we may receive Log Data that includes the web page you visited. We use this information to better understand the use of our services, to protect the safety and integrity of our platform, and to show more relevant content, including ads. We do not associate this web browsing history with your name, email address, phone number, or username, and we delete, obfuscate, or aggregate it after no longer than 30 days. We do not collect this data from browsers that we believe to be located in the European Union, the United Kingdom, or EFTA States. pageReference: /content/twitter-com/legal/en/privacy/chapter-2/chapter-2-5-tooltips---overlays1 Content: Third-party websites You can see Twitter content on Twitter’s website and apps - but many other websites also choose to include Twitter content. 2.6 Advertisers and Other Ad Partners Advertising revenue allows us to support and improve our services. We use the information described in this Privacy Policy to help make our advertising more relevant to you, to measure its effectiveness, and to help recognize your devices to serve you ads on and off of Twitter. Our ad partners and affiliates share information with us such as browser cookie IDs, mobile device IDs, hashed email addresses, demographic or interest data, and content viewed or actions taken on a website or app. Some of our ad partners, particularly our advertisers, also enable us to collect similar information directly from their website or app by integrating our advertising technology. Information shared by ad partners and affiliates or collected by Twitter from the websites and apps of ad partners and affiliates may be combined with the other information you share with Twitter and that Twitter receives about you described elsewhere in our Privacy Policy. Twitter adheres to the Digital Advertising Alliance Self-Regulatory Principles for Online Behavioral Advertising (also referred to as “interest-based advertising”) and respects the DAA’s consumer choice tool for you to opt out of interest-based advertising at https://optout.aboutads.info. In addition, our ads policies prohibit advertisers from targeting ads based on categories that we consider sensitive or are prohibited by law, such as race, religion, politics, sex life, or health. Learn more about your privacy options for interest-based ads here and about how ads work on our services here. If you are an advertiser or a prospective advertiser, we process your personal data to help offer and provide our advertising services. You can update your data in your Twitter Ads dashboard or by contacting us directly as described in this Privacy Policy. pageReference: /content/twitter-com/legal/en/privacy/chapter-2/chapter-2-6-tooltips---overlays Content: Data from advertising partners Advertisers share information on Twitter… Better ads ...so that, if your settings allow, they can show their most relevant ads. 2.7 Developers If you access our APIs or developer portal, we process your personal data to help provide our services. You can update your data by contacting us directly as described in this Privacy Policy. 2.8 Other Third Parties and Affiliates We may receive information about you from third parties who are not our ad partners, such as others on Twitter, partners who help us evaluate the safety and quality of content on our platform, our corporate affiliates, and other services you link to your Twitter account. You may choose to connect your Twitter account to accounts on another service, and that other service may send us information about your account on that service. We use the information we receive to provide you features like cross-posting or cross-service authentication, and to operate our services. For integrations that Twitter formally supports, you may revoke this permission at any time from your application settings; for other integrations, please visit the other service you have connected to Twitter. 2.9 Personalizing Based On Your Inferred Identity When you log into Twitter on a browser or device, we will associate that browser or device with your account for purposes such as authentication, security, and personalization. Subject to your settings, we may also associate your account with browsers or devices other than those you use to log into Twitter (or associate your logged-out device or browser with other browsers or devices). When you provide other information to Twitter, including an email address, we associate that information with your Twitter account. Subject to your settings, we may also use this information in order to infer other information about your identity, for example by associating your account with hashes of email addresses that share common components with the email address you have provided to Twitter. We do this to operate and personalize our services. For example, if you visit websites with sports content on your laptop, we may show you sports-related ads on Twitter for Android and, if the email address associated with your account shares components with another email address, such as shared first name, last name, or initials, we may later match advertisements to you from advertisers that were trying to reach email addresses containing those components. pageReference: /content/twitter-com/legal/en/privacy/chapter-2/chapter-2-9-tooltips---overlays Content: Personalizing across devices To help make your Twitter experience better on one of your devices... Personalizing across devices ...Twitter may use information from another device of yours. 2.10 How You Control Additional Information We Receive Your Twitter Personalization and data settings let you decide: You can use Your Twitter data to review: We also provide a version of these tools on Twitter if you don’t have a Twitter account, or if you’re logged out of your account. This lets you see the data and settings for the logged out browser or device you are using, separate from any Twitter account that uses that browser or device. On Periscope, you can control whether we personalize your experience based on your watch history through your settings. Please see here for more details of how we collect and use your data. pageReference: /content/twitter-com/legal/en/privacy/chapter-2/chapter-2-10-tooltips---overlays Content: Your settings You have options when it comes to what information you share and see on Twitter. Information We Share and Disclose As noted above, Twitter is designed to broadly and instantly disseminate information you share publicly through our services. In the limited circumstances where we disclose your private personal data, we do so subject to your control, because it’s important for operating our services, or because it’s required by law. 3.1 Sharing You Control We share or disclose your personal data with your consent or at your direction, such as when you authorize a third-party web client or application to access your account or when you direct us to share your feedback with a business. Similarly, to improve your experience, we work with third-party partners to display their video content on Twitter. When you watch or otherwise interact with content from these partners, they may receive and process your personal data as described in their privacy policies. If you do not want this content to play automatically, you can adjust your autoplay settings. If you’ve shared information like Direct Messages or protected Tweets with someone else who accesses Twitter through a third-party service, keep in mind that the information may be shared with the third-party service. Subject to your settings, we also provide certain third parties with personal data to help us offer or operate our services. You can learn more about these partnerships in our Help Center, and you can control whether Twitter shares your personal data in this way by using the “Allow additional information sharing with business partners” option in your Personalization and Data settings. (This setting does not control sharing described elsewhere in our Privacy Policy, such as when we share data with our service providers, or through partnerships other than as described in our Help Center.) pageReference: /content/twitter-com/legal/en/privacy/chapter-3/chapter-3-1-tooltips---overlays Content: Sharing data with advertisers When you click on or view an ad on Twitter, if your settings allow, Twitter may send data about your device back to the advertiser to help them measure their success and improve future ads. 3.2 Service Providers We engage service providers to perform functions and provide services for us in the United States, Ireland, and other countries. For example, we use a variety of third-party services to help operate our services, such as hosting our various blogs and wikis, and to help us understand the use of our services, such as Google Analytics. We may share your private personal data with such service providers subject to obligations consistent with this Privacy Policy and any other appropriate confidentiality and security measures, and on the condition that the third parties use your private personal data only on our behalf and pursuant to our instructions (service providers may use other non-personal data for their own benefit). We share your payment information with payment services providers to process payments; prevent, detect, and investigate fraud or other prohibited activities; facilitate dispute resolution such as chargebacks or refunds; and for other purposes associated with the acceptance of credit and debit cards. 3.3 Law, Harm, and the Public Interest Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Privacy Policy or controls we may otherwise offer to you, we may preserve, use, share, or disclose your personal data or other safety data if we believe that it is reasonably necessary to comply with a law, regulation, legal process, or governmental request; to protect the safety of any person; to protect the safety or integrity of our platform, including to help prevent spam, abuse, or malicious actors on our services, or to explain why we have removed content or accounts from our services8; to address fraud, security, or technical issues; or to protect our rights or property or the rights or property of those who use our services. However, nothing in this Privacy Policy is intended to limit any legal defenses or objections that you may have to a third party’s, including a government’s, request to disclose your personal data. pageReference: /content/twitter-com/legal/en/privacy/chapter-3/chapter-3-3-tooltips---overlays Content: Transparency matters We remove content from our services when it violates our rules, like if it glorifies violence. When that content is gone, we want you to know. 3.4 Affiliates and Change of Ownership In the event that we are involved in a bankruptcy, merger, acquisition, reorganization, or sale of assets, your personal data may be sold or transferred as part of that transaction. This Privacy Policy will apply to your personal data as transferred to the new entity. We may also disclose personal data about you to our corporate affiliates in order to help operate our services and our affiliates’ services, including the delivery of ads. 3.5 Non-Personal Information We share or disclose non-personal data, such as aggregated information like the total number of times people engaged with a Tweet, demographics, the number of people who clicked on a particular link or voted on a poll in a Tweet (even if only one did), the topics that people are Tweeting about in a particular location, some inferred interests, or reports to advertisers about how many people saw or clicked on their ads. Managing Your Personal Information With Us You control the personal data you share with us. You can access or rectify this data at any time. You can also deactivate your account. We also provide you tools to object, restrict, or withdraw consent where applicable for the use of data you have provided to Twitter. And we make the data you shared through our services portable and provide easy ways for you to contact us. Please note, to help protect your privacy and maintain security, we take steps to verify your identity before granting you access to your personal information or complying with deletion, portability, or other related requests. 4.1 Accessing or Rectifying Your Personal Data If you have registered an account on Twitter, we provide you with tools and account settings to access, correct, delete, or modify the personal data you provided to us and associated with your account. You can download certain account information, including your Tweets, by following the instructions here. On Periscope, you can request correction, deletion, or modification of your personal data, and download your account information, by following the instructions here. You can learn more about the interests we have inferred about you in Your Twitter Data and request access to additional information here. To submit a request related to access, modification, or deletion of your information, or someone else’s information if you are their authorized agent, you may also contact us as specified in the How To Contact Us section of our Privacy Policy (Additional Information or Assistance). We may require you to provide additional information for verification. 4.2 Deletion We keep Log Data for a maximum of 18 months. If you follow the instructions here (or for Periscope here), your account will be deactivated. When deactivated, your Twitter account, including your display name, username, and public profile, will no longer be viewable on Twitter.com, Twitter for iOS, and Twitter for Android. For up to 30 days after deactivation it is still possible to restore your Twitter account if it was accidentally or wrongfully deactivated. Keep in mind that search engines and other third parties may still retain copies of your public information, like your profile information and public Tweets, even after you have deleted the information from our services or deactivated your account. Learn more here. 4.3 Object, Restrict, or Withdraw Consent When you are logged into your Twitter account, you can manage your privacy settings and other account features here at any time. It may take a short amount of time for privacy settings to be fully reflected throughout our systems. 4.4 Portability Twitter provides you a means to download the information you have shared through our services by following the steps here. Periscope provides you a means to download the information you have shared through our services by following the steps here. 4.5 Additional Information or Assistance Thoughts or questions about this Privacy Policy? Please let us know by contacting us here or writing to us at the appropriate address below. If you live in the United States or any other country outside of the European Union, EFTA States, or the United Kingdom, the data controller responsible for your personal data is Twitter, Inc. with an address of: Twitter, Inc. Attn: Privacy Policy Inquiry 1355 Market Street, Suite 900 San Francisco, CA 94103 If you live in the European Union, EFTA States, or the United Kingdom, the data controller is Twitter International Company, with an address of: Twitter International Company Attn: Data Protection Officer One Cumberland Place, Fenian Street Dublin 2, D02 AX07 IRELAND You can confidentially contact Twitter’s Data Protection Officer here. If you wish to raise a concern about our use of your information (and without prejudice to any other rights you may have), you have the right to do so with your local supervisory authority or Twitter International Company’s lead supervisory authority, the Irish Data Protection Commission. You can find their contact details here. Children and Our Services Our services are not directed to children, and you may not use our services if you are under the age of 13. You must also be old enough to consent to the processing of your personal data in your country (in some countries we may allow your parent or guardian to do so on your behalf). You must be at least 16 years of age to use Periscope. Our Global Operations and Data Transfers To bring you our services, we operate globally. Where the laws of your country allow you to do so, you authorize us to transfer, store, and use your data in the United States, Ireland, and any other country where we operate. In some of the countries to which we transfer personal data, the privacy and data protection laws and rules regarding when government authorities may access data may vary from those of your country. Twitter does not sell your personal data as defined under the California Consumer Privacy Act. Learn more about our global operations and data transfer here. When we transfer personal data outside of the European Union, EFTA States, Brazil, or the United Kingdom, we ensure an adequate level of protection for the rights of data subjects based on the adequacy of the receiving country’s data protection laws and/or contractual obligations placed on the recipient of the data (where we rely on the EU standard contractual clauses these may be requested by inquiry as described below). Twitter, Inc. complies with the EU-US and Swiss-US Privacy Shield principles (the “Principles”) regarding the collection, use, sharing, and retention of personal data from the European Union, EFTA States, and the United Kingdom as described in our EU-US Privacy Shield certification and Swiss-US Privacy Shield certification. We do not rely on the EU-US or Swiss-US Privacy Shield as our lawful basis to transfer personal data from the European Union, EFTA States, or the United Kingdom, however. If you have a Privacy Shield-related complaint, please contact us here. As part of our participation in Privacy Shield, if you have a dispute with us about our adherence to the Principles, we will seek to resolve it through our internal complaint resolution process, alternatively through the independent dispute resolution body JAMS, and under certain conditions, through the Privacy Shield arbitration process. Privacy Shield participants are subject to the investigatory and enforcement powers of the US Federal Trade Commission and other authorized statutory bodies. Under certain circumstances, participants may be liable for the transfer of personal data from the EU, EFTA States, or the United Kingdom to third parties outside the EU, EFTA States, and the United Kingdom. Learn more about the EU-US Privacy Shield and Swiss-US Privacy Shield here. Changes to This Privacy Policy We may revise this Privacy Policy from time to time. The most current version of the policy will govern our processing of your personal data and will always be at https://twitter.com/privacy. If we make a change to this policy that, in our sole discretion, is material, we will notify you within Twitter.com, Twitter for iOS, or Twitter for Android, via a Twitter owned and operated Twitter account (for example @TwitterSupport), or by sending an email to the email address associated with your account. By continuing to access or use the Services after those changes become effective, you agree9 to be bound by the revised Privacy Policy. pageReference: /content/twitter-com/legal/en/privacy/chapter-7/chapter-7 Content: You're in control Even as Twitter evolves, you can always change your privacy settings. The power is yours to choose what you share in the world. Effective: August 19, 2021 Archive of Previous Privacy Policies 1 The many sides of you. Let your imagination run free. Explore your interests with a number of different identities. 2 Hello, World. Your profile information is displayed under your photo and username on your profile page. 3 Keep a low profile. Friends want to tag you in a photo? Lucky you. If you're not into that sort of thing, you can always change your settings. 4 Spam stinks. We scan your Direct Messages to try and prevent spam for you and our service. 5 Just like email. Only send Direct Messages to people you trust. Remember, even though someone can’t Retweet your Direct Messages, they still have a copy of your message. 6 Approved by you. We use your payment information to process transactions you’ve approved and for fraud detection. 7 Not hungry? You can change your cookie settings in your web browser. 8 Transparency matters. We remove content from our services when it violates our rules, like if it glorifies violence. When that content is gone, we want you to know. 9 You’re in control. Even as Twitter evolves, you can always change your privacy settings. The power is yours to choose what you share in the world.
Twitter Active Participant Other Covered Entities Industries Participation Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield Framework: Active EU-U.S. Privacy Shield Framework: Active Purpose of Data Collection Twitter, Inc. receives and processes personal information relating to natural persons in the EU/EEA and in the United Kingdom who are employees, prospective employees, or individual contacts of corporate customers (including advertisers), suppliers, service providers and other corporate business partners. Twitter, Inc. typically receives such information from Twitter International Company or its subsidiaries in the EU/EEA and in the United Kingdom. Twitter, Inc., provides web-hosting and a wide range of technical services for Twitter International Company, its subsidiaries, and other entities, such as advertisers and partners. Twitter, Inc. may also process personal information provided by Twitter International Company’s or its subsidiaries’ corporate business partners based in the EU/EEA and in the United Kingdom. The personal information described above is collected, held and processed for different purposes, which may include any of the following: for sales and marketing to consumers and businesses; effecting transactions with consumers and businesses; providing, understanding, improving, and customizing services and products for consumers and businesses; financial processing and management; supplier, vendor, and partner relationship management; customer support and customer relationship management; human resources, operations, and security management; and legal and regulatory compliance. The personal information described above is not disclosed to third parties except in the limited circumstances described in the Privacy Policy, including with consent; to a service provider subject to appropriate privacy, confidentiality, and security measures; to comply with a law or regulation or protect against harm; or to a corporate affiliate or in connection with a business transfer. Privacy Policy HR Data This policy describes the data collected and how it is used during the application and employment process. The Twitter Human Resources Privacy Policy describes how and when Twitter, Inc. and its affiliates and subsidiaries collect, use and share information for employment-related purposes. The policy is available on Twitter internal sites and services. Non-HR Data Privacy Policy for CrossInstall The MoPub Privacy Policy explains how MoPub collects and uses information about visitors to MoPub’s websites, publisher and advertiser customers that use the MoPub advertising technology services, and end users of apps and sites that use such services. Privacy Policy for Revue services Scroll Privacy Policy The Twitter Privacy Policy describes how and when the Twitter Services, including Snappy TV, collect, use and share information. Privacy Policy describes how and when Twitter, Inc. and Twitter International Company (collectively, "Twitter"), collect, use, and share your personal information when you use the Twitpic website or otherwise access content on Twitpic (the "Services"). When using our Services, you acknowledge the practices and policies described in this Privacy Policy. The Twitter Privacy Policy describes how and when the Twitter Services collect, use and share information. The Vine Archive Privacy Policy describes how and when Twitter, Inc. and Twitter International Company (collectively, “Twitter”), collect, use, and share your information when you use the Vine Archive or otherwise access videos, information, text, graphics, photos, and other materials that users previously posted publicly on Vine (collectively referred to as “Content”) on the Vine Archive. Verification Method Self-Assessment Dispute Resolution Questions or Complaints? If you have a question or complaint regarding the covered data, please contact Twitter, Inc. at: Privacy Shield organizations must respond within 45 days of receiving a complaint. If you have not received a timely or satisfactory response from Twitter, Inc. to your question or complaint, please contact the independent recourse mechanism listed below HR RECOURSE MECHANISM NON-HR RECOURSE MECHANISM Appropriate statutory body with jurisdiction to investigate any claims against Twitter, Inc. regarding possible unfair or deceptive practices and violations of laws or regulations covering privacy Federal Trade Commission Self-Certify Privacy Shield List Audiences About Home | Website Feedback | Privacy Policy | Disclaimer | FOIA | USA.gov The International Trade Administration (ITA), U.S. Department of Commerce manages this site to facilitate the Privacy Shield framework in the United States. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein. This site contains PDF documents. A PDF Reader is available from Adobe Systems Incorporated.U.S. Department of Commerce | EU-U.S. & Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield | 1401 Constitution Avenue, N.W. | Room 11018 | Washington, D.C. 20230
what is it? There's a browser safer than Firefox... ...it is Firefox, with NoScript! Fight CLICKJACKING Now! NoScript 10 "Quantum" resources NoScript also provides the most powerful anti-XSS and anti-Clickjacking protection ever available in a browser. NoScript's unique whitelist based pre-emptive script blocking approach prevents exploitation of security vulnerabilities (known, such as Meltdown or Spectre, and even not known yet!) with no loss of functionality... You can enable JavaScript, Java and plugin execution for sites you trust with a simple left-click on the NoScript status bar icon (look at the picture), or using the contextual menu, for easier operation in popup statusbar-less windows. Watch the "Block scripts in Firefox" video by cnet. Staying safe has never been so easy! Experts will agree: Firefox is really safer with NoScript! V. 11.2.11 - Quantum Security for everyone! If you find any bug or you'd like an enhancement, please report here or here. Many thanks! Main good news Experts do agree... 03/10/2014, Edward Snowden endorses NoScript as a countermeasure against state Surveillance State. 08/06/2008, "I'd love to see it in there." (Window Snyder, "Chief Security Something-or-Other" at Mozilla Corp., interviewed by ZDNet about "adding NoScript functionality into the core browser"). 03/18/2008, "Consider switching to the Firefox Web browser with the NoScript plug-in. NoScript selectively, and non-intrusively, blocks all scripts, plug-ins, and other code on Web pages that could be used to attack your system during visits" (Rich Mogull on TidBITS, Should Mac Users Run Antivirus Software?). 11/06/2007, Douglas Crockford, world-famous JavaScript advocate and developer of JSON (one of the building blocks of Web 2.0), recommends using NoScript. 03/16/2007, SANS Internet Storm Center, the authoritative source of computer security related wisdom, runs a front-page Ongoing interest in Javascript issues diary entry by William Stearns just to say "Please, use NoScript" :) Actually, NoScript has been recommended several times by SANS, but it's nice to see it mentioned in a dedicated issue, rather than as a work-around for specific exploits in the wild. Many thanks, SANS! 05/31/2006, PC World's The 100 Best Products of the Year list features NoScript at #52! Many thanks to PC World, of course, for grokking NoScript so much, and to IceDogg who kindly reported these news... In the press...
Google LLC Active Participant Other Covered Entities Industries Participation Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield Framework: Active EU-U.S. Privacy Shield Framework: Active Purpose of Data Collection This certification applies to Google LLC and its wholly-owned U.S. subsidiaries, it includes X (a division of Google LLC) and Chronicle LLC, and any other wholly-owned U.S. subsidiary of Google LLC to the extent of any current separate self-certification by such entity. Personal data other than human resources data: Data is processed for various purposes depending on the particular product or service being provided, including: sales and marketing to consumers and businesses; supplying services and products to consumers and businesses; operating, developing and improving Google services and products; personalizing Google services and products; financial processing and management; supplier, vendor and partner relationship management; fraud prevention, security, and protection of Google and our users; compliance with governmental, legislative and regulatory bodies; and customer support and relationship management. Data is disclosed to third parties as detailed in our Privacy Policy, including: in situations in which we have consent, for external processing, with domain administrators, and for legal reasons. Human resources data: Data is processed for various employment and legal purposes, including: recruitment and staffing; compensation, benefit programs and payroll; performance management and training; compliance and risk management; workplace management; protection against injury, theft, legal liability, fraud and abuse; and other business purposes. Data is disclosed to third parties as detailed in our Privacy Policy, including for business-related and legal purposes. As of July 16, 2020, we no longer rely on the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield to transfer EEA and UK personal information to the U.S. but continue to apply the Privacy Shield Principles to personal data we received from the EEA and UK in reliance on the Shield. Privacy Policy HR Data Describes how Google collects and uses employee data. Available to employees on Google internal sites and services. The EU Data Protection Authorities (DPAs) serve as the dispute resolution provider for Google Employee Privacy Policy. Non-HR Data Explains the data that we collect and why we collect it, how we use that data, and the choices we offer to control that data. The EU Data Protection Authorities (DPAs) will serve as the dispute resolution provider for this privacy policy. Explains the data that we collect and why we collect it, how we use that data, and the choices we offer to control that data. The EU Data Protection Authorities (DPAs) serve as the dispute resolution provider for this privacy policy. Explains the data that we collect and why we collect it, how we use that data, and the choices we offer to control that data. The EU Data Protection Authorities (DPAs) will serve as the dispute resolution provider for this privacy policy. Explains the data that we collect and why we collect it, how we use that data, and the choices we offer to control that data. The EU Data Protection Authorities (DPAs) serve as the dispute resolution provider for this privacy policy. The Extended Workforce Privacy Policy explains the data that we collect and why we collect it, how we use that data, and the choices we offer to control that data. The EU Data Protection Authorities (DPAs) serve as the dispute resolution provider for this privacy policy. Explains the data that we collect and why we collect it, how we use that data, and the choices we offer to control that data. The EU Data Protection Authorities (DPAs) serve as the dispute resolution provider for this Privacy Policy. Explains the data that we collect and why we collect it, how we use that data, and the choices we offer to control that data. The EU Data Protection Authorities (DPAs) serve as the dispute resolution provider for this privacy notice. Explains the data that we collect and why we collect it, how we use that data, and the choices we offer to control that data. The EU Data Protection Authorities (DPAs) serve as the dispute resolution provider for this Privacy Policy. Explains the data that we collect and why we collect it, how we use that data, and the choices we offer to control that data. The EU Data Protection Authorities (DPAs) serve as the dispute resolution provider for this Privacy Policy. Explains the data that we collect and why we collect it, how we use that data, and the choices we offer to control that data. The EU Data Protection Authorities (DPAs) serve as the dispute resolution provider for this privacy policy. Explains the data that we collect and why we collect it, how we use that data, and the choices we offer to control that data. The EU Data Protection Authorities (DPAs) serve as the dispute resolution provider for this privacy policy. Explains the data that we collect and why we collect it, how we use that data, and the choices we offer to control that data. The EU Data Protection Authorities (DPAs) serve as the dispute resolution provider for this privacy policy. Explains the data that we collect and why we collect it, how we use that data, and the choices we offer to control that data. The EU Data Protection Authorities (DPAs) serve as the dispute resolution provider for this privacy statement. Explains the data that we collect and why we collect it, how we use that data, and the choices we offer to control that data. The EU Data Protection Authorities (DPAs) serve as the dispute resolution provider for this privacy policy. Verification Method Self-Assessment Dispute Resolution Questions or Complaints? If you have a question or complaint regarding the covered data, please contact Google LLC at: Privacy Shield organizations must respond within 45 days of receiving a complaint. If you have not received a timely or satisfactory response from Google LLC to your question or complaint, please contact the independent recourse mechanism listed below HR RECOURSE MECHANISM NON-HR RECOURSE MECHANISM Appropriate statutory body with jurisdiction to investigate any claims against Google LLC regarding possible unfair or deceptive practices and violations of laws or regulations covering privacy Federal Trade Commission Self-Certify Privacy Shield List Audiences About Home | Website Feedback | Privacy Policy | Disclaimer | FOIA | USA.gov The International Trade Administration (ITA), U.S. Department of Commerce manages this site to facilitate the Privacy Shield framework in the United States. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein. This site contains PDF documents. A PDF Reader is available from Adobe Systems Incorporated.U.S. Department of Commerce | EU-U.S. & Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield | 1401 Constitution Avenue, N.W. | Room 11018 | Washington, D.C. 20230
Download Chrome Download Firefox Download Edge Download Safari
Navigation und Service Direkt zu: Main navigation Privacy policy General data protection policy for the internet pages of Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München (hereinafter “LMU”) Skip to content I. Contact information in connection with the internet presence of LMU I.1. Information on the person responsible for data protection at LMU The person responsible for LMU internet pages within the meaning of the General Data Protection Regulation (DSGVO) and of other national data protection laws or other provisions relating to data protection, is LMU, which is legally represented by their president. Contact information can be found here (copyright). The particular facilities of LMU are each responsible for the content offered on the internet pages of LMU. Please direct any questions relating to a particular internet page of LMU to the particular contact party who is listed for the particular internet page in the copyright notice. I.2 Name and address of the official LMU data protection officer The contact data of the official LMU data protection officer is found on the internet page of LMU at www.lmu.de/datenschutz. The official data protection officer is available to answer questions about data protection at LMU. Please use the contact form on the internet page of the official LMU data protection officer for any questions. Please also use this form to report any data protection events which become known to you from your use of LMU internet pages. II. General information about data processing on the LMU internet pages II.1 Applicability of the data protection policy This data protection policy applies to the processing of personal data in connection with LMU internet presence. According to Art. 4 item 1 DSGVO, “personal data” means all information which relates to an identified or identifiable, natural person; the term “identifiable” is deemed to mean a natural person who can be identified directly or indirectly, in particular through assignment of an identifier such as a name, an identifying number, location data, an online identity or one or several special features which are an expression of physical, physiological, genetic, psychic, financial, cultural or social identity of this natural person.According to Art. 4 item 2 DSGVO, “processing” means any process executed with or without the aid of automated methods, or any such set of methods in connection with personal data, such as the collection, acquisition, organization, ordering, saving, adapting or changing, read-out, query, use, disclosure by means of transmittal, dissemination or any other form of manipulation, coordination or linking, limitation, deletion or destruction. II.2 Purpose and legal basis for processing of personal data In accordance with Art. 2 para. 6 BayHSchG, Art. 4 para. 1 lines 1 and 2 BayEGovG, on our web pages we offer our services and administrative services, and also information for the public about our activities. Personal data will only be processed on the LMU internet pages provided this is necessary to provide a functioning internet page, to present the particular content, or to provide certain services or offers. The processing of personal data occurs either owing to a legal requirement or based on the user’s consent. When processing of personal data is based on a consent, then such processing shall occur based on Art. 6 para. 1 (a) DSGVO. Art. 6 para. 1 (b) DSGVO serves as the legal basis for the processing of personal data required for the performance of a contract to which the user is a party. Insofar as processing personal data is required to fulfil a legal obligation to which LMU is subject, the applicable legal basis is provided by Art. 6 para. 1 (c) DSGVO. In the event that the vital interests of the affected person or other natural person require the processing of personal data, the applicable legal basis is provided by Art. 6 para. 1 lit. e, para. 3 lit. b DSGVO i.V.m. Art. 4 para. 1 BayDSG. The processing may also be required in fulfillment of a mission which has been assigned to LMU and which is in the public interest (Art. 6 para. 1 (b) DSGVO). Additional legal basis may also arise from special-legal or other legal regulations, to which reference is made in the particular, individual case. We use cookies, protocol data files and web analysis tools to prepare business statistics, to implement organizational studies, to check or maintain our web services and to ensure network and information security according to Art. 6 para. 1 BayDSG, § 13 para. 7 TMG, Art. 11 para. 1 BayEGovG. Insofar and inasmuch as the purpose of the processing is not adversely impacted, we will anonymize or pseudomize your personal data. II.3 Data deletion and retention period The personal data of users of LMU internet pages will be deleted or anonymised inasmuch as and provided the particular purpose of the retention has expired and there is no archiving requirement. Deletion or erasure of the data will also occur when a retention period as specified by the European or domestic legislature in EU regulations, laws or other specifications to which LMU is subject, has expired, unless there is a requirement for continued retention of the data for completion of or fulfillment of a contract. If provided in the referenced regulation, retention for a longer period is possible. II.4 Data security In order to protect your data in a reasonable and comprehensive manner during the processing, and in particular to protect against its transmittal, where necessary and with reference to the prior art, we use appropriate encryption techniques and secure technical systems (e.g. SSL/TLS). III. Specific information on data processing on the LMU internet pages Every time you visit an LMU website, the LMU system automatically collects data and information from the computer system of the accessing computer. In addition, we process your personal data to the extent you provide such data via the LMU internet pages. In the processing of your personal data we take into account in particular the principles of data protection relating to necessity, purpose, data minimizing, legality, correctness and integrity. III.1 Use of active components and cookies The information offers of the LMU use JavaScript applications, primarily for navigation elements, e.g. field-dependent viewing in contact forms. No personal data is saved in this. The use of these functionalities can be turned off by making a setting in your browser program. By turning off this feature, the display of some elements, e.g. contact forms, video player or accordion may be adversely affected. Sometimes cookies are placed merely due to a visit to the LMU internet, for example, to identify user-sessions, and also to configure the internet pages in a user-friendly manner. Cookies are text files that are stored on the Internet browser or by the Internet browser on the user's computer system. If a user visits an internet page, a cookie may be stored in the user's operating system. This cookie contains a unique character sequence that permits the browser to be specifically identified upon a subsequent visit to the internet page. A session-ID is saved in the cookies for public offers exclusively for identification of the user-session (session-cookie). These session-cookies are automatically deleted at the end of your visit by closing your browser. Cookies are stored on your computer and transmitted to the LMU internet page by your computer. Therefore, you as a user have full control over the use of cookies. You can deactivate or restrict the transmission of cookies by changing the configuration of your Internet browser. Cookies that have already been saved can be deleted at any time. This can also occur automatically. The saving of these cookies can be turned off at any time by making a corresponding setting in the internet browser; this can also be done automatically. However, several elements of our internet pages require that the calling internet browser can also be identified even after a page-change. If cookies are deactivated for the LMU internet pages, it is possible that not all functions of the LMU internet pages can still be accessed. The following services can only be used when the saving of cookies is allowed: Web formsThe event calendar www.lmu.de/aktuelles/veranstaltungenAll offers saved via the central authentication mechanism The transmission of flash-cookies cannot be disabled via the settings in your internet browser, but by changing the setting of the flash player. III.2 Use of webpage analysis tool Matomo (formerly PIWIK) Programs for evaluation of user behavior on the LMU internet pages are only used by the LMU in an anonymized form. On several internet pages we use the Open-Source-Software-Tool Matomo (formerly PIWIK) for analysis of your surfing behavior. This software places a cookie on your computer. If individual pages - even sub-pages - of our internet pages are called, then the following anonymized data is saved. Two bytes of the IP address of the calling system (user’s system)The called internet pageThe internet page from which the user has arrived at the called internet page (referrer)The sub-pages which are called from the called internet pageThe dwell-time on the internet pageThe frequency of call-up of the internet pageInformation about the operating system, type of browser, video display resolution The software Matomo is set up so that full IP addresses are not saved, but rather two bytes of the IP address are masked. In this way an unambiguous association with the calling computer is not possible. Therefore, your IP address is also always anonymized before any evaluation. The software runs exclusively on the servers of the LMU. Any saving of data occurs only on these servers. Any transmittal to third parties does not occur. Additional information on Matomo is found at https://matomo.org/docs/privacy/ (external link). The use of Matomo can be disabled in general by making a corresponding setting in your internet browser.You can decide whether an unambiguous internet analysis cookie may be saved in your browser in order to allow the operator of the internet page to acquire and analyze various statistical - not personal - data. The use of an internet analysis cookie serves the purpose of improving the quality of the internet pages and their content, and for improving user convenience. Web analysis cookies make it clear how the internet page is being used, so that the offering can be optimized. However, if you decide against it, then please disable the checkbox to set the Matomo deactivation cookie in your browser. Your visit to this webpage is currently detected and anonymized by the Matomo web analysis tool. Please click here so that your visit will no longer be detected. The use of Google Analytics on the LMU web servers does not occur for reasons of data protection. III.3 Use of social media icons or internet links No automatic transmittal of your personal data occurs when using social media icons of Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, YouTube, etc. on the LMU internet pages. To prevent automatic data transmission to the vendor of social media, an internet link to these media is disabled on the internet pages of the LMU. For reasons of data security, active social media plugins are not used. Our social media presence is a part of our publicity work. Our endeavor is to provide and to exchange information with specific target groups. All our social media vendors are certified under the EU-US Privacy Shield and are transparent to any person, so that a legally reasonable level of protection exists for personal data, for example: Facebook, Inc. (https://www.privacyshield.gov/participant?id=a2zt0000000GnywAAC&status=Active)Twitter Inc. (https://www.privacyshield.gov/participant?id=a2zt0000000TORzAAO&status=Active). III.4 Use of RSS An RSS feed is a form of the classical newsletter that you can read either with your browser or with a special program (RSS reader). When we offer an RSS feed, we will use it to inform you about current events. If personal data is collected within the scope of an application for an RSS feed, then this information will be processed exclusively for the purpose of performing the RSS, and will be deleted as soon as it is no longer needed, that is, either after you log off, or after cessation of the RSS. III.5 Protocols and preparation of logfiles Due to occurring security-related events, e.g. attempted hacking attacks, relevant access data will be saved for every access on all central hosted webpages. The LMU internet server is operated for the LMU by its IT department (Department VI), Geschwister-Scholl-Platz 1, 80539 München, E-Mail: it.internet@verwaltung-uni-muenchen.de). Depending on the used access protocol, the protocol data set contains data with the following content: IP address for the inquiring computerDate and time of the inquiryAccess method/function requested by the inquiring computerInput values (file name etc.) transmitted by the inquiring computer.Access status of the web server (data file transmitted, data file not found, command not executed, etc.).Name of the requested data fileURL from which the file was requested/the desired function was initiatedInformation on browser typeThe user’s operating systemInternet pages from which the user's system accessed the LMU internet pageInternet pages that are called from the LMU internet pages a) Purpose of the protocol The saved data are used for purposes of identification and tracking of allowed access and of impermissible access attempts, for maintenance of the internet page functionality on the internet server, and - in anonymized form - for optimizing of the internet offering. Temporary saving of the IP address is also necessary in order to enable delivery of the LMU internet page to your computer. For this purpose the user’s IP address must remain stored for the duration of the session. This data is not stored by the LMU together with other personal data. b) Retention period The recorded data are saved for a maximum of seven days and then deleted. A longer retention period may occur in an individual case, provided a violation related to security was discovered. Irrespective thereof, retention for an even longer period is possible. In such a case, your IP address will be deleted or scrambled so that an allocation to the calling client is no longer possible. c) Evaluation of the protocol Evaluation of the protocol occurs by the authorized employee of the IT department (Department VI), Geschwister-Scholl-Platz 1, 80539 München, E-Mail: it.internet@verwaltung-uni-muenchen.de) under contract with the LMU and observing the provisions of data protection law. If the data is urgently required for maintenance of the internet page and the saving of the data in logfiles is required for operation of the internet page, then you will not be entitled to a right of objection. III.6 Contact form and use of email You can contact the LMU via the LMU internet pages. Please use the contact form found on the particular internet page, or the email address mentioned on the internet page. a) Use of a contact form If you make use of the contact form to communicate with us, then the data provided in the particular input mask will be transmitted to the LMU and saved. Usually this data will pertain to the first and last name, and an email address. The specific data can be found in the particular contact form or in the particular reference to the facility responsible for the content of the particular internet page. Required fields, without which the inquiry cannot be processed, are identified as such in the contact form. We obtain your consent for data processing in the course of the submission process and include a reference to our privacy policy. In addition to the data you provide, the following data is also stored at the time the message is sent: On the application server: Referrer (URL from which the form was called up)User’s email address provided in the formReceiver’s email address for the form The personal data processed during the application process serve to prevent misuse of the contact form and to ensure the security of our information technology systems. By using a contact form you will be informed about the data collected and about your particular rights. b) Use of an email address In addition to the contact form, it is also possible to send an email to an LMU email address provided for use of the particular internet page. If you send us an email, then your email address and the other data provided by you will only be used for correspondence with you, and will be saved only as long as necessary for this purpose, unless some other legal grounds will justify its continuing retention. Please note that the use of a non-encrypted email is fundamentally unsecure, that is, it may possibly be read, changed or captured by third parties along the transmission route. Please remember this when you send us information in an email. Therefore the sending of confidential messages should be either by regular mail or by S/MIME (X509-) encryption. In the event that you wish to send us an encrypted message, please use the public X509-certificate for encryption of your message. In order that we may also send you confidential messages, please also give us your postal address, if requested. Otherwise there is the possibility that no information can be shared. In the event that you want to send us a non-encrypted email, then please use preferably a function address at the LMU, provided such an address is provided on the internet page. Please note that in the case of an email inquiry, we cannot verify your identity and do not know who is concealed behind the email address. A legally secure communication by means of a simple, unsigned email is not ensured, not even if it is encrypted. At the LMU we sometimes use filters against unwanted advertising (spam filters) that can also sometimes wrongly classify and delete emails as advertising. Emails that can contain harmful programs, e.g. viruses, are deleted automatically. If you want to receive an encrypted email from us, then please provide us with the necessary information. III.7 Collection of other personal data, e.g. newsletter subscription It is possible to input your personal data on the LMU internet pages. Your data basically will be encrypted (https) along the transmission route, unless the particular offers specifically make reference thereto. If personal data is collected for a newsletter subscription, then it will be processed only for the purpose of sending you the newsletter. The particular newsletter can be canceled at any time. To do so, please use the email address oder website provided for the person responsible for sending the newsletter. Additional information will be provided together with your subscription to the newsletter. III.8 Google Custom Search The search field on this webpage (“Google Custom Search”) is provided by Google Inc. (“Google”). The use of this search field, where personal data is also transmitted to Google, is governed by the Google Data Protection Regulations (at www.google.de/privacy.html). Your data will be transmitted when you send the form. If you do not want to accept these foreign data protection regulations, then please refrain from using the search function. III.9 Use of embedded Google Maps Some of the LMU internet pages use the Google Maps service. This service is provided by Google Inc., 1600 Amphitheatre Parkway, Mountain View, CA 94043, USA. The referral occurs exclusively by means of an API (two-click method). The data will only be sent to Google by this program interface after you click on the “Switch to Google Maps” button. When using the Google functions, Google will process your IP address and possibly other personal data (e.g. information about your use of this internet page or subsequent pages or the data offered in Google Maps). Google thus obtains information that you have called up our internet page or the corresponding subsequent pages. This information is usually sent to and saved on a Google server in the USA. This will occur independently of whether Google has set up a user account that you have requested, or whether no user account exists at all. If you are logged in to Google, your data will probably be assigned directly to your user account. If you do not want this data to be assigned to your profile at Google, then you must first log off your user account at Google before you switch to Google Maps. But Google will save your data (even for users not logged on or registered) as a user profile and will evaluate this data for their own internal purposes for advertising, market research and needs-based structuring of their internet pages, and may also inform other users of the social network about your activities on our internet page. You have a right to object to the formation of this usage profile; to exercise this right you must apply directly and exclusively to Google. The LMU as provider of our internet pages has no influence on this data processing. If you do not agree to the transfer of your personal data to Google, then do not click on “Switch to Google Maps.” Then no data will be transferred to Google, however, a map will also not be opened. Your personal data will only be collected and transferred to Google by our internet page if you click on the button “Continue to Google Maps.” The use of Google Maps is not absolutely necessary to obtain information about our internet pages and is thus voluntary for you. The incorporation of Google Maps into our internet pages occurs in the interest of a responsive presentation of our internet offers and to ensure a fast and convenient finding of sites available on our internet pages. This represents a justifiable interest within the meaning of Art. 6 para. 1 f) GDPR. In addition, Google Inc. is certified under the EU-US “Privacy Shield” Data Protection Agreement, whereby Google ensures a level of data protection equivalent to that of the EU in regard to data processing. More information on the handling of usage data is found in the Google terms of usage at http://www.google.de/intl/de/policies/terms/regional.htmlor for Google Maps at https://www.google.com/intl/de_US/help/terms_maps.htmlThe Google data privacy policy is found at https://www.google.de/intl/de/policies/privacy/and the data privacy policy for Google Maps is found at https://www.google.com/intl/de_de/help/terms_maps.html IV. Your data protection rights as an affected person As a part of the LMU internet presence, personal data is processed within the scope stated above. To this extent you are an affected person within the meaning of the DSGVO and are entitled to the following rights with respect to the LMU: IV.1 Right to information You can ask the LMU to confirm whether we process personal data concerning you. If such data is processed, you can request the following information from the LMU: The purposes of the processing for which the personal data are intended;The categories of personal data processed;The recipients or categories of recipients to whom personal data concerning you have been or will be disclosed;The period for which the personal data will be stored, or if that is not possible, the criteria used to determine that period;The right to request from the responsible officer to correct or delete your personal data, a right of restriction of processing or a right to object to processing as well as the right to data portability;A right to complain to an oversight authority, in the case of the LMU the directly cognizant data protection oversight authority is the Bavarian State Officer for Data Protection (https://www.datenschutz-bayern.de) (external link);All available information regarding the source of the data if personal data was not collected from you;The existence of automated decision-making, including profiling, referred to in Article 22 para. 1 and 4 DSGVO and, at least in those cases, meaningful information about the logic involved, as well as the significance and the envisaged consequences of such processing for the affected person. You have the right to request information concerning whether your personal data will be transferred to a third country or international organization. In such cases, you may request to be informed of the appropriate guarantees pursuant to Art. 46 DSGVO as related to this transfer. Your right to information is subject to legal restrictions and is not absolute, rather, it is limited in particular in the following cases: If a large volume of information is saved for an affected person, then the LMU may request that the information be restricted to that information or processing which relates to the request for information.Obvious unfounded or excessive requests, or frequent repetitions may result in rejection or in compensation of costs.The granting of information must not affect the rights of the LMU or other persons (in this regard, professional secrets, business secrets, data with reference to other persons are exempted).The information may be withheld under the circumstances stated in Art. 10 BayDSG.In the case of data processing for scientific or historical research purposes and for statistical purposes, your right to information may additionally be restricted if it is likely that the completion of the research or statistical work will be made impossible or seriously hampered, and the restriction is necessary to complete the research or statistical work (Art. 25 BayDSG). IV.2 Right to rectification You have the right to rectify and/or to complete inaccurate and/or incomplete personal data saved by the LMU. The LMU will make the correction without delay. In the case of data processing for scientific or historical research purposes and for statistical purposes, your right to rectification may be restricted if it is likely that the completion of the research or statistical work will be made impossible or seriously hampered, and the restriction is necessary to complete the research or statistical work (Art. 25 BayDSG). IV.3 Right to restriction of processing Under the following circumstances you may request a restriction of processing of your personal data: If you contest the accuracy of the personal data, the restriction will extend for a period enabling the LMU to verify the accuracy of the personal data;The processing is unlawful and you oppose the erasure of the personal data and request the restriction of its use instead;The LMU no longer needs the personal data for the purposes of the processing, but it is required by you for the establishment, exercise or defense of legal claims;If you have objected to processing pursuant to Article 21 para. 1 DSGVO pending the verification whether the legitimate grounds of the LMU override those asserted by you. Where processing personal data concerning you has been restricted, such personal data shall, with the exception of storage, only be processed with your consent or for the establishment, exercise or defense of legal claims or for the protection of the rights of another natural or legal person or for reasons of important public interest of the Union or of a Member State. Where processing personal data concerning you has been restricted, you will be informed by the LMU before the restriction of processing is lifted. In the case of data processing for scientific or historical research purposes and for statistical purposes, your right to restriction of processing may be restricted if it is likely that the completion of the research or statistical work will be made impossible or seriously hampered, and the restriction is necessary to complete the research or statistical work (Art. 25 BayDSG). IV.4 Right to deletion a) Deletion requirement You can request the LMU to delete your personal data without delay. The LMU is required to delete this data without delay, provided one of the following reasons applies: The personal data concerning you is no longer necessary in relation to the purposes for which it was collected or otherwise processed and the processing for other purposes is not permissible.You withdraw consent on which the processing is based according to Art. 6 para. 1 (a) or Art. 9 para. 2 (a) DSGVO, and where there is no other legal grounds for the processing.You object to the processing pursuant to Art. 21 para. 1 DSGVO and there are no overriding legitimate grounds for the processing, or you object to the processing pursuant to Art. 21 para. 2 DSGVO.Personal data concerning you have been unlawfully processed.The personal data concerning you have to be erased for compliance with a legal obligation in Union or Member State law to which the responsible person is subject.The personal data concerning you have been collected in relation to an offer of services of the information company referred to in Art. 8 para. 1 DSGVO. b) Notification to third parties Where the LMU has made the personal data public and is obliged pursuant to Art. 17 para. 1 DSGVO to erase the personal data, the responsible officer, taking account of available technology and the cost of implementation, shall take reasonable steps, including technical measures, to inform officers who are processing the personal data, that you have requested the deletion by such officers of any links to, or copy or replication of, that personal data. c) Exceptions The right to erasure does not apply to the extent processing is necessary For exercising the right of freedom of expression and information;For completion of a legal obligation which requires the processing according to the laws of the EU or of member states to which the LMU is subject, or to complete a task in the public interest or in exercise of official authority which has been conferred upon the LMU;For reasons of public interest in the area of public health in accordance with Art. 9 para. 2 (h) and (i) as well as Art. 9 para. 3 DSGVO;For archiving purposes in the public interest, scientific or historical research purposes or statistical purposes in accordance with Art. 89 para. 1 DSGVO in so far as the right referred to in letter a) above is likely to render impossible or seriously impair the achievement of the objectives of that processing; orFor the establishment, exercise or defense of legal claims. IV. 5 Right to notification If you have asserted your right to rectification, erasure or restriction of processing vis-a-vis the LMU, then we are obliged to communicate any rectification or erasure of personal data or restriction of processing to each recipient to whom the personal data have been disclosed, unless this proves impossible or involves disproportionate effort (Art. 19 DSGVO).You have the right to be informed by the LMU about such recipients. IV. 6 Right to data portability Regarding the demands of Art. 21 DSGVO you have the right to receive the personal data concerning you which you provided to the LMU, in a structured, commonly used and machine-readable format. In addition, you have the right to transfer this data to one or another responsible officer without hindrance by the LMU, provided The processing is based on consent pursuant to Art. 6 para. 1 DSGVO or Art. 9 para. 2 DSGVO or on a contract pursuant to Article 6 para. 1 (b) DSGVO; andThe processing is carried out by automated means. In exercising your right to data portability, you have the right to have the personal data transmitted directly from the LMU to another responsible officer, where technically feasible. The exercise of this right cannot adversely affect the rights and freedoms of others. The right to data portability does not apply to processing necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the LMU. IV. 7 Right to object You have the right to object, on grounds relating to your particular situation, at any time to processing of personal data concerning you which is based on Article 6 para.1 (e) or (f) DSGVO. In such cases, the LMU shall no longer process the personal data concerning you unless the LMU can demonstrate compelling legitimate grounds for the processing which override your interests, rights and freedoms or for the establishment, exercise or defense of legal claims. In the context of the use of information company services, and notwithstanding Directive 2002/58/EC, you are entitled to exercise your right to object by using automated means, in which technical specifications are applied. In the case of processing of your personal data for scientific or historical research purposes and for statistical purposes pursuant to Art. 89 para. 1 DSGVO, you have the right to object to this data processing for reasons relating to your particular situation. Your right to objection may be restricted if it is likely that the completion of the research or statistical work will be made impossible or seriously hampered, and the restriction is necessary to complete the research or statistical work (Art. 25 BayDSG). IV. 8 Right to revoke consent to data processing You have the right to revoke your consent to data processing with future effect; however, this revocation shall not affect the legitimacy of the data processing already occurred based on your consent given until the time of revocation. This revocation must always be submitted to the agency within the LMU which has received the consent. IV. 9 Right to lodge a complaint with an oversight authority Without prejudice to any other administrative or judicial remedy, you have the right to lodge a complaint with a data protection oversight authority, in particular in the Member State of your habitual residence, place of work or place of the alleged infringement if you consider that the processing of personal data relating to you infringes the DSGVO. In the case of the LMU the directly cognizant data protection oversight authority is the Bavarian State Officer for Data Protection (https://www.datenschutz-bayern.de) (external link); The supervisory authority with which the complaint has been lodged shall inform the complainant on the progress and the outcome of the complaint including the possibility of a judicial remedy pursuant to Art. 78 DSGVO. If you believe that the processing of your personal data is in violation of the DSGVO, then we request that you first turn to the officer responsible for the content of the particular internet page, who is named in the copyright statement, and/or to the official data protection officer at the LMU, since this will allow a rapid examination or remedy, if necessary, of your concerns. It is our goal and responsibility to examine all arriving questions of data protection immediately and to solve potential problems under data protection law. V. Applicability of the general data protection policy and scope of the supplemental data protection policy of the person responsible for the content of the internet page The general data protection policy applies to those internet pages of the LMU for which the LMU bears responsibility. A supplemental data protection policy may also apply to a particular internet page of the LMU, provided the person responsible for the content of the internet page is performing additional processing of personal data and gives notice of such processing. This applies in particular when specific services are offered by individual departments. The supplemental data protection policy can expand, but not replace, the general data protection policy. The general data protection policy is a part of any supplemental data protection policy. VI. Status, revisions and applicability of the LMU general data protection policy This general data protection policy was created on 03/2019. We reserve the right to update this data protection policy on a regular basis in order to take proper account of current legal requirements and technical changes, and also to implement our services and offers in compliance with data protection. The most recent version of this policy applies to your visit to an LMU web page. Tracking by Matomo (formerly Piwik) Personal Settings Related links Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München Related links What are you looking for? More information about Google data transfer in LMU's Privacy Policy.
Welcome to LSF - the university portal for students, guests, teachers and employees! Please note that you can use all the functions in the left column (e.g. the course catalogue or the search for courses) without loggin in. Welcome to LSF - the university portal for students, guests, teachers and employees! Please note that you can use all the functions in the left column (e.g. the course catalogue or the search for courses) without loggin in. Forgot your password? Register for access
Search Links and Functions Breadcrumb Navigation Main Navigation Content Data Science Join our program MSc Data Science at Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität (LMU) Munich. LMU Munich is the first university in Germany that offers an elite graduate program in Data Science in English. Data Science is the science of extracting knowledge and information from data and requires competencies in both statistical and computer-based data analysis. The elite program Data Science is an interdisciplinary program and is carried out jointly by the Department of Statistics and the Institute for Informatics at LMU Munich. The program is part of and is supported by the Elite Network of Bavaria. The curriculum of the elite master program Data Science is a modularised study program. Students learn statistical and computational methods for collecting, managing, and analysing large and complex data sets and how to extract knowledge and information from these data sets. The program also comprises courses on data security, data confidentiality, and data ethics. In the practical modules students will tackle real-world problems in cooperation with industrial partners. Other highlights of the program are the summer schools and the focused tutorials. Upon graduation our students are well prepared for a career as a data scientist in the private or public sector in fields such as applied economics, political science, sociology, education, medicine, public policy, and media research. Students may also pursue a doctoral study in a variety of academic disciplines that require quantitative analysis. Service Links Footer
Search Links and Functions Breadcrumb Navigation Main Navigation Content Welcome to the Center for Quantitative Risk Analysis CEQURA The Center for Quantitative Risk Analysis (CEQURA) conducts research on the analysis of risk, promotes the dialogue between academic disciplines, and provides knowledge transfer between academia and praxis. more Announcements 16.01.2020 CEQURA Conference on Advances in Financial and Insurance Risk Management, September 25, 2020 The 11th CEQURA Conference on Advances in Financial and Insurance Risk Management, organized by the Society for Financial and Insurance Econometrics, provides a platform for presenting and discussing current developments in research and industry, and fosters the exchange between academics and practitioners from the risk management community. more All Messages Service Beliebte Links Footer
stats@lmu Department of Statistics joins LMU Open Science Center Our department is now a member of the LMU Open Science Center. By joining the OSC, we express that we actively support the goals of the OSC. We want to take on a leading role in fostering good research practices and promoting open science. We believe that statistics as a subject plays a major role in solving the reproducibility crisis and in working towards better, more open research. More about the LMU OSC: KOALA: a new paradigm for election coverage Just published in AStA Advances in Statistical Analysis by Alexander Bauer, Andreas Bender, André Klima & Helmut Küchenhoff, the paper presents “an opinion poll-based ‘now-cast’ of probabilities of events in multi-party electoral systems.” Abstract: Common election poll reporting is often misleading as sample uncertainty is addressed insufficiently or not covered at all. Furthermore, main interest usually lies beyond the simple party shares. For a more comprehensive opinion poll and election coverage, we propose shifting the focus toward the reporting of survey-based probabilities for specific events of interest. We present such an approach for multi-party electoral systems, focusing on probabilities of coalition majorities. A Monte Carlo approach based on a Bayesian Multinomial-Dirichlet model is used for estimation. Probabilities are estimated, assuming the election was held today (“now-cast”), not accounting for potential shifts in the electorate until election day (“fore-cast”). Since our method is based on the posterior distribution of party shares, the approach can be used to answer a variety of questions related to the outcome of an election. We also introduce visualization techniques that facilitate a more adequate depiction of relevant quantities as well as respective uncertainties. The benefits of our approach are discussed by application to the German federal elections in 2013 and 2017. An open-source implementation of our methods is freely available in the R package coalitions. Full paper Congratulations on another great effort by this all-star team of StabLab-Alumni. Tags: publication Just published: “Simplified vine copula models: Approximations based on the simplifying assumption.” Spanhel, Fabian and Malte S. Kurz, “Simplified vine copula models: Approximations based on the simplifying assumption”, Electronic Journal of Statistics 13 (2019), no. 1, 1254–1291. doi:10.1214/19-EJS1547. Abstract: Vine copulas, or pair-copula constructions, have become an important tool in high-dimensional dependence modeling. Commonly, it is assumed that the data generating copula can be represented by a simplified vine copula (SVC). In this paper, we study the simplifying assumption and investigate the approximation of multivariate copulas by SVCs. We introduce the partial vine copula (PVC) which is a particular SVC where to any edge a j-th order partial copula is assigned. The PVC generalizes the partial correlation matrix and plays a major role in the approximation of copulas by SVCs. We investigate to what extent the PVC describes the dependence structure of the underlying copula. We show that, in general, the PVC does not minimize the Kullback-Leibler divergence from the true copula if the simplifying assumption does not hold. However, under regularity conditions, stepwise estimators of pair-copula constructions converge to the PVC irrespective of whether the simplifying assumption holds or not. Moreover, we elucidate why the PVC is often the best feasible SVC approximation in practice. Congrats, Fabian & Malte! Tags: publication MünchenerUniMagazin widmet sich dem Thema Künstliche Intelligenz und Data Science In der aktuellen Ausgabe des MünchnerUniMagazins werden die verschiedenen Aspekte der künstlichen Intelligenz an der LMU vorgestellt. Dabei wird sowohl der Studiengang Data Science als auch die jüngst gestartete Kooperation mit der Tel Aviv University vorgestellt. StaBLab receives 3-year funding for TourIST Our StaBLab has received a 3-year grant from the German Research Foundation (DFG) for the interdisciplinary research project TourIST - Tourism In Space and Time. The aim of the research project is to investigate touristic behavior and its changes in a spatio-temporal context and to determine influencing factors and triggers of the changes in order to be able to better estimate and predict future developments. The data basis are nationwide representative surveys of the “Reiseanalyse”, which are conducted annually by Forschungsgemeinschaft Urlaub und Reisen e.V. (FUR). Data from 1995 to 2019 will be included. The interdisciplinary research project TourIST was conceived in cooperation with Prof. Dr. Jürgen Schmude and Dr. Marion Karl from the Department of Geography of the LMU Munich. Universitätsstudie Bayernwahl USBW18 (München - Passau - Regensburg) Aus unserem Lehrforschungsprojekt USBW18 zur Landtagswahl am 14.10.2018 liegen die ersten vorläufigen Ergebnisse vor. Die Grafik zeigt vorläufige Ergebnisse der Wählerwanderung in Bayern von der Bundestagswahl 2017 zur Landtagswahl 2018 (saldierte Wanderungsströme, Grafik: Statistisches Beratungslabor StaBLab der LMU) Weitere Ergebnisse und Informationen finden Sie hier. Best Poster Award in Warsaw!!! Sevag Kevork was awarded the Best Poster Award at the COSTNET Conference in Warsaw. He was able to convince the local jury with outstanding layout, quality and the scientific content of his poster as well as his striking arguments in the discussion! We congratualte and are proud of Sevag! Tags: Awards highpotentials poster network Hyuuge success at IWSM 2018! Two awards at the 33rd International Workshop on Statistical Modelling held in Bristol this year went to LMU statistics researchers and their teams: Michael Lebacher won the Best Student Talk award for his presentation International Arms Transfers: A Dynamic Separable Network Model With Heterogeneity Components (joint work with Paul W. Thurner and Göran Kauermann) Alexander Bauer won the coveted Best Student Poster award for his poster KOALA: A new paradigm for election coverage in multi-party electoral systems. (joint work with Andreas Bender, André Klima and Helmut Küchenho, also check out their snazzy website) Congratulations to all those involved, we expect there will be champagne & cake in the Alte Bib upon your return! Tags: awards highpotentials werollintheyhatin Just published: “Anticipation of food safety and fraud issues: ISAR - A new screening tool to monitor food prices and commodity flows.” by K. Verhaelen, A. Bauer, F. Günther, B. Müller, M. Nist, B. Ülker Celik, C. Weidner, H. Küchenhoff, P.Wallner, in Food Control Abstract: Despite major efforts, food safety and food fraud issues continue to appear, showing the need for an improved risk anticipation to enhance consumer protection. To this end, we need a holistic view on the food production beyond the classical farm to fork principle and consider developments in- and outside the food chain. Commodity flows and prices are considered as relevant drivers for the emergence of food safety and fraud issues. To conveniently obtain information on these drivers and to monitor their changes, we developed a tool to analyze the volume, origin and price of foods imported to Germany, based on data of the German Foreign Trade Statistic. The ISAR-Tool (Import Screening for the Anticipation of Food Risks) facilitates a descriptive analysis of the import data of about 2400 different food items imported from 220 countries and an automated analysis of the data for a systematic detection of unexpected changes in import volumes and prices. For the automated approach, time series analyses using SARIMA and ETS models are applied and data points outside the model-based 99% prediction intervals are considered as potentially relevant changes. Monthly, more than 2000 of such changes are detected, leaving us with the challenging task of their evaluation for food safety and food fraud. To deal with the vast amount of results, of which the great majority cannot be linked to food safety or fraud issues, we implemented prioritization routines, and the 200 most critical results are considered for further expert evaluation. Despite remaining challenges in the performed evaluation process of the automated analysis, the described approach facilitates already at this stage an improved identification of food safety and food fraud hazards and the implementation of more targeted food safety controls, as shown in this paper. Our most prominent example of an identified food fraud and food safety risk was the detection of massive adulterations of hazelnut products with almonds and cashews, which were associated to the observed all-time high in hazelnut prices. Based on our findings, we conclude that the ISAR-Tool and the described analyses of commodity flows and prices can be important elements in the anticipation of risks and enable an enhanced consumer protection. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodcont.2018.06.029; free access Congratulations to the StabLab Team! Tags: publication nuts Our very own Heidi Seibold is Curator of the Real Scientists Twitter Account @realsci_DE this week! Just a heads-up: This week Heidi Seibold curates the twitter account @realsci_DE, the german language Real Scientists Twitter account. @realsci_DE is a rotational Twitter account featuring scientists, researchers, clinicians, writers, communicators and policy makers talking about their lives and their work for a week. If you want to learn about the life and work of LMU statistician Heidi Seibold (@HeidiBaya) visit https://twitter.com/realsci_DE this week. Tags: fame twitterati dittschitällnäitiff Just published: “Bootstrap inference when using multiple imputation” M. Schomaker, C. Heumann: “Bootstrap inference when using multiple imputation”, Statistics in Medicine Abstract: Many modern estimators require bootstrapping to calculate confidence intervals because either no analytic standard error is available or the distribution of the parameter of interest is nonsymmetric. It remains however unclear how to obtain valid bootstrap inference when dealing with multiple imputation to address missing data. We present 4 methods that are intuitively appealing, easy to implement, and combine bootstrap estimation with multiple imputation. We show that 3 of the 4 approaches yield valid inference, but that the performance of the methods varies with respect to the number of imputed data sets and the extent of missingness. Simulation studies reveal the behavior of our approaches in finite samples. A topical analysis from HIV treatment research, which determines the optimal timing of antiretroviral treatment initiation in young children, demonstrates the practical implications of the 4 methods in a sophisticated and realistic setting. This analysis suffers from missing data and uses the gformula for inference, a method for which no standard errors are available. Find the full article here. Tags: publication DFG Homepage launched. International Trade of Arms: A Network Approach The joint project of the Chair of Applied Statistics in Social Sciences, Economics and Business, together with the Chair of Empirical Political Research and Policy Research gives a network perspective for the empirical analysis of the international trade of arms. The identification of flow structures, of their dynamics, and of their causes are a novel contribution to the positive science of peace and conflict. Our quantitatively-oriented network approach is based on measurements of the export, transfer, and import of arms over long time periods (1950-2016). We analyze major conventional weapons (MCW) and small arms and light weapons (SALW). For more information see our new launched homepage: www.arms-trade-research.uni-muenchen.de Tags: research homepage arms trade Just published: A note on low-dimensional Kalman smoothers for systems with lagged states in the measurement equation Abstract: In this paper we derive a modified Kalman smoother for state space systems with lagged states in the measurement equation. This modified Kalman smoother minimizes the mean squared error (MSE). Computationally efficient algorithms that can be used to implement it in practice are discussed. We also show that the conjecture in Nimark (2015) that the output of his modified Kalman filter for this type of systems can be plugged into the standard Kalman smoother is in general not correct. The competing smoothers are compared with regards to the MSE. Kurz, M. S. (2018), “A note on low-dimensional Kalman smoothers for systems with lagged states in the measurement equation”, Economics Letters 168, pp. 42-45. [full text] Tags: publication Just published: Multiple imputation with sequential penalized regression Just published in Statistical Methods in Medical Research: Multiple imputation with sequential penalized regression by Faisal M. Zahid and Christian Heumann. Abstract: Missing data is a common issue that can cause problems in estimation and inference in biomedical, epidemiological and social research. Multiple imputation is an increasingly popular approach for handling missing data. In case of a large number of covariates with missing data, existing multiple imputation software packages may not work properly and often produce errors. We propose a multiple imputation algorithm called mispr based on sequential penalized regression models. Each variable with missing values is assumed to have a different distributional form and is imputed with its own imputation model using the ridge penalty. In the case of a large number of predictors with respect to the sample size, the use of a quadratic penalty guarantees unique estimates for the parameters and leads to better predictions than the usual Maximum Likelihood Estimation (MLE), with a good compromise between bias and variance. As a result, the proposed algorithm performs well and provides imputed values that are better even for a large number of covariates with small samples. The results are compared with the existing software packages mice, VIM and Amelia in simulation studies. The missing at random mechanism was the main assumption in the simulation study. The imputation performance of the proposed algorithm is evaluated with mean squared imputation error and mean absolute imputation error. The mean squared error, parameter estimates with their standard errors and confidence intervals are also computed to compare the performance in the regression context. The proposed algorithm is observed to be a good competitor to the existing algorithms, with smaller mean squared imputation error, mean absolute imputation error and mean squared error. The algorithm’s performance becomes considerably better than that of the existing algorithms with increasing number of covariates, especially when the number of predictors is close to or even greater than the sample size. Two real-life datasets are also used to examine the performance of the proposed algorithm using simulations. Find the full paper here. Neuer Imagefilm zum BA Statistik Studiengang seit heute online (s.o.), auch unter http://www.statistik.uni-muenchen.de/studieninteressierte/index.html About This blog is about stuff that is happening in and around the Statistics Department at the Ludwigs-Maximilians University of Munich. We try to regularly feature new publications, events, research highlights, and things that we think are of interest to everybody working with data. TalksPublicationsSoftwareResearch HighlightsInstitutskolloqiumEventsFollow us:Follow @statsatlmuImpressumAngaben gemäß § 5 TMG: Fabian Scheipl Institut für Statistik Ludwigstr 33 80539 München Kontakt:Telefon:089 2180 2248E-Mail:fabian.scheipl@stat.uni-muenchen.de TalksPublicationsSoftwareResearch HighlightsInstitutskolloqiumEvents Follow us:Follow @statsatlmu Impressum Angaben gemäß § 5 TMG: Fabian Scheipl Institut für Statistik Ludwigstr 33 80539 München Kontakt: Powered by Tumblr. Minimal Theme designed by Artur Kim.
Suche Links und Funktionen Sprachumschaltung Navigationspfad Hauptnavigation Inhaltsbereich Welcome to the Institute of Informatics Computer Sciences at LMU Munich Munich offers excellent prerequisites as a media-, research- and technology center for study and research. Central significance can be attributed to Ludwig-Maximilian University, being one of the largest universities in Germany. It was founded in 1472. Computer Science as a Cross-sectional discipline in Teaching and Research Key Competency Computer Science Computer Science is a key competency at LMU and an integral part of almost all sciences at LMU. The subject area of computer science educates students of almost all faculties in the basics of information technology. In addition to this a number of successful subject areas have established themselves as interfaces between computer science and other scientific areas such as, for example, mediainformatics, bioinfomatics, computer linguistics, etc. The training for teaching computer science also profits from the broad spectrum of natural sciences and arts offered. The broad spectrum offered by LMU encourages students to think „beyond the obvious“. This is especially the case for female students. The percentage of female students of computer science at LMU is among the highest in Germany. Networking of Research Through its networked structure with numerous partners in humanistic-, law-, social- and natural sciences, LMU Computer Sciences has an own attractive profile. The co-operations are supported by mutual third party projects. The networking idea is an essential part of the self-image of the institute. Computer Science at LMU holds second place in Germany behind Saarbrücken in respect to the number of publications per professor, one of the most important metrics for research performance of a faculty. As far as the number of citations, a further important metric, is concerned Computer Science at LMU holds 4th place out of 50, and thus has the top position in Bavaria by a large margin. This was verified by the current independent ranking of all computer science faculties in Germany by the Society of Computer Science (Informatik-Spektrum24(4)). The Institute of Informatics within the Economic Environment LMU Computer Science together with its students, contributes towards the future of Munich as an IT center. It can be seen that there will be a medium-range shortage of qualified IT personnel on the market, in spite of the momentary economic dip. For numerous companies in Bavaria professors, employees and students of the Institute are competent cooperation partners. LMU Computer Science provides the only research group in Bavaria with a close connection to the world elite. Cooperation partners such as Siemens, BMW, Softlab, Munich Airport, Allianz and the German Center for Avionics and Space Exploration (DLR) profit from the knowhow of LMU Computer Science. Document Actions Funktionsleiste Servicebereich Fußzeile
Suche Links und Funktionen Sprachumschaltung Navigationspfad Hauptnavigation Inhaltsbereich Teaching and Research Groups The Institute for Informatics is subdivided into eight teaching and Research units, with currently 18 full professors working in divesre research areas: Communication Systems and Systems Programming http://www.nm.ifi.lmu.de/ Prof. Dr. Dieter Kranzlmüller, Prof. Dr. Heinz-Gerd Hegering (i.R.), Prof . Seegmüller (emer.) http://www.mobile.ifi.lmu.de/ Prof. Dr. Claudia Linnhoff-Popien Database Systems http://www.dbs.ifi.lmu.de/ Prof. Dr. Thomas Seidl, Prof. Dr. Christian Böhm, Prof. Dr. Volker Tresp (Honorarprofessor), Prof. Dr. Peer Kröger (apl.), Prof. Dr. Matthias Schubert (apl.), Prof. Dr. Hans-Peter Kriegel (i.R.) Software and Systems Engineering https://www.sosy-lab.org/ Prof. Dr. Dirk Beyer, Prof. Dr. Martin Wirsing (VP), Prof. Dr. Rolf Hennicker (apl.), Prof. Dr. Rudolf Haggenmüller (apl.), Prof. Dr. Fred Kröger (i.R.) Programming und Modelling Languages http://www.pms.ifi.lmu.de/ Prof. Dr. François Bry, Prof. Dr. Hans Jürgen Ohlbach Theoretical Computer Science http://www.tcs.ifi.lmu.de/ Prof. Dr. David Sabel (substitute) Bioinformatics http://www.bio.ifi.lmu.de/ Prof. Dr. Ralf Zimmer, Prof. Dr. Volker Heun, Prof. Dr. Caroline Friedel Media Informatics & Human-Computer Interaction http://www.medien.ifi.lmu.de/ Prof. Dr. Heinrich Hußmann, Prof. Dr. Florian Alt (JP) http://www.mmi.ifi.lmu.de/index.xhtml Prof. Dr. Andreas Butz Artikelaktionen Funktionsleiste Servicebereich Fußzeile
Suche Links und Funktionen Sprachumschaltung Navigationspfad Hauptnavigation Inhaltsbereich Introduction Studying in Munich Munich - as a german center of media and technology - offers outstanding opportunities for studies and research. Of central importance in this is the Ludwig-Maximilians-University. Founded in 1472, it is today one of the largest universities in Germany. Since 1991 the LMU offers a Diploma degree program in Informatics, as well as Informatics as a minor subject. This program intends to prepare its graduates for work in typical areas like Further information (in German) can be found in the brochure about the Institute for Informatics and its degree programs. Study condidtions A special emphasis is put on the individual guiodance and supervision of students. Courses, tutorials, practicals and reading classes taken in groups of managable size. The practical training is done on state-of-the-art workstations and communication systems. Due to the concentration of software companies in the Munich area, interested students can carry out their practicals and project works in cooperation with industry. They also get the opportunity to participate in current research projects in their chosen area of specialization. The many international contacts of the Institute for Informatics at LMU allow qualified students to work and study abroad for a period of time. Programs The LMU offers the following programs in the area of informatics: Each program has its own formal prerequisites: for the B.Sc. program in Informatics and the Bioinformatics programs, prospective students have to take an aptitude test (Eignungsfeststellungsverfahren, EFV). The Media Informatics program is subject to a local Numerus Clausus. Elite Programs Besides the mentioned programs the Institute for Informatics participates in the Elite Programs "Technology Management" und "Softwaretechnik" in the Elitenetzwerk Bayern, which are open to particularly gifted students with a completed B.Sc. degree. Artikelaktionen Funktionsleiste Servicebereich Fußzeile
Suche Links und Funktionen Sprachumschaltung Navigationspfad Hauptnavigation Inhaltsbereich Welcome to the Institute of Informatics Computer Sciences at LMU Munich Munich offers excellent prerequisites as a media-, research- and technology center for study and research. Central significance can be attributed to Ludwig-Maximilian University, being one of the largest universities in Germany. It was founded in 1472. Computer Science as a Cross-sectional discipline in Teaching and Research Key Competency Computer Science Computer Science is a key competency at LMU and an integral part of almost all sciences at LMU. The subject area of computer science educates students of almost all faculties in the basics of information technology. In addition to this a number of successful subject areas have established themselves as interfaces between computer science and other scientific areas such as, for example, mediainformatics, bioinfomatics, computer linguistics, etc. The training for teaching computer science also profits from the broad spectrum of natural sciences and arts offered. The broad spectrum offered by LMU encourages students to think „beyond the obvious“. This is especially the case for female students. The percentage of female students of computer science at LMU is among the highest in Germany. Networking of Research Through its networked structure with numerous partners in humanistic-, law-, social- and natural sciences, LMU Computer Sciences has an own attractive profile. The co-operations are supported by mutual third party projects. The networking idea is an essential part of the self-image of the institute. Computer Science at LMU holds second place in Germany behind Saarbrücken in respect to the number of publications per professor, one of the most important metrics for research performance of a faculty. As far as the number of citations, a further important metric, is concerned Computer Science at LMU holds 4th place out of 50, and thus has the top position in Bavaria by a large margin. This was verified by the current independent ranking of all computer science faculties in Germany by the Society of Computer Science (Informatik-Spektrum24(4)). The Institute of Informatics within the Economic Environment LMU Computer Science together with its students, contributes towards the future of Munich as an IT center. It can be seen that there will be a medium-range shortage of qualified IT personnel on the market, in spite of the momentary economic dip. For numerous companies in Bavaria professors, employees and students of the Institute are competent cooperation partners. LMU Computer Science provides the only research group in Bavaria with a close connection to the world elite. Cooperation partners such as Siemens, BMW, Softlab, Munich Airport, Allianz and the German Center for Avionics and Space Exploration (DLR) profit from the knowhow of LMU Computer Science. Artikelaktionen Funktionsleiste Servicebereich Fußzeile
Suche Links und Funktionen Sprachumschaltung Navigationspfad Hauptnavigation Inhaltsbereich VACCINATION CAMPAIGNS FOR STUDENTS OF THE LMU Dear students,LMU is a university whose teaching thrives on presence. It is therefore our great concern to see you again in the coming winter semester in as large a number as possible and in as many face-to-face teaching sessions as possible at our university.We can only achieve this goal together if as many students as possible are vaccinated against Covid-19. Therefore, we ask you: get vaccinated!LMU strongly supports the vaccination campaign of the Free State of Bavaria. The Munich-Riem Vaccination Center, with which LMU is cooperating constructively in this matter, has sufficient vaccine and free appointments. Register there and get vaccinated! You can register at https://impfzentren.bayern and receive an appointment.In addition, LMU also supports the vaccination campaign of the Free State on site and invites you to initially three appointments without pre-registration on July 19, 21 and 22, 2021. For this purpose, the vaccination mobile of the Bavarian Vaccination Center will stop by and vaccinate the Biontech/Pfizer vaccine.The dates are as follows:- Monday, 19.07.2021, 13:00 to 16:30, vaccination bus at Geschwister-Scholl-Platz (in front of the main building of the university), - Wednesday, 21.07.2021, 10:30 to 16:30, at the campus Großhadern, vaccination bus at Feodor-Lynen-Straße, - Thursday, 22.07.2021, 10:30 to 16:30, at the LMU main building at Geschwister-Scholl-Platz 1.Once again, the note: Pre-registration is not required or possible.You will need your student ID (LMUCard), your ID card and your vaccination card. LMU students who wish to be vaccinated as part of this campaign must register in advance or on site at the Bavarian Vaccination Center: https://impfzentren.bayern.I am confident that this will give us a good start to the winter semester!Dr. Christoph MülkeVice President for Business and Human Resources Management Artikelaktionen Funktionsleiste Servicebereich Fußzeile
Suche Links und Funktionen Sprachumschaltung Navigationspfad Hauptnavigation Inhaltsbereich Cancellation of courses / Corona Update Dear members of the faculty, Lecturing in classes should be terminatied immediately. More information will follow soon. See https://www.uni-muenchen.de/aktuelles/news/2020/corona_informationen0203.html at the VERY, VERY BOTTOM of the page PLEASE FORWARD THIS MESSAGE TO ALL RELEVANT PEOPLE.More information will follow soon. Artikelaktionen Funktionsleiste Servicebereich Fußzeile
Suche Links und Funktionen Sprachumschaltung Navigationspfad Hauptnavigation Inhaltsbereich Detailed Directions The Institute for Informatics has two locations, both are located in the city center and offer few parking opportunities. It is thus recommended to use public transport to reach the institute. 1) LMU main building 7) Theresienstraße 37-41: Lecture halls for most introductory courses, Department of Mathematics 8) Oettingenstraße 67: Main site of the Institute for Informatics 9) Amalienstraße 17: Site of the units for Bioinformatics and Media Informatics Further maps can be found at www.stadtplandienst.de. Current public transport schedules are found at Münchner Verkehrsverbund. Directions to Oettingenstraße 67 From the airport or From the Central Station (Hauptbahnhof) From the Eastern Station (Ostbahnhof) By car Directions to Amalienstraße 17 From the airport or The trip takes about 1 hour. From the Central Station (Hauptbahnhof) From the Eastern Station (Ostbahnhof) Document Actions Funktionsleiste Servicebereich Fußzeile
Links and Functions Language Selection Breadcrumb Navigation Main Navigation Content The Statistical Consulting Unit (StaBLab) The StaBLab continues to accept requests for consulting (Registration). The consultations take place virtually. The Statistical Consulting Unit (StaBLab) was founded in 1997 and is part of the Department of Statistics of the Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität (LMU) Munich. Our goal is the scientific consulting of users of statistics. A special focus of our work lies in advising students of the LMU on statistical issues, especially on final theses. The interdisciplinary work on the level of the students is a special concern for us. We also offer statistical support for other universities and external research institutions. We have many years of experience with various institutions, such as Helmholtz Zentrum München and various forestry faculties outside the LMU. For companies we offer support in the area of data analysis ("Business Analytics", "Big Data Analytics"). The support ranges from simple short consultations to long-term research cooperations. Contents are e.g. personnel planning, efficient marketing, empirical evaluation of enterprise strategies. Footer
MENU Access Options You can be signed in via any or all of the methods shown below at the same time. My Profile Sign in here to access free tools such as favourites and alerts, or to access personal subscriptions I don't have a profile I am signed in as: With my free profile I can: Institutional Login If you have access to journal content via a university, library or employer, sign in here Loading institutional login options... With institutional access I can: Society If you have access to journal via a society or associations, read the instructions below Access to society journal content varies across our titles. If you have access to a journal via a society or association membership, please browse to your society journal, select an article to view, and follow the instructions in this box. Contact us if you experience any difficulty logging in. Some society journals require you to create a personal profile, then activate your society account I am signed in via: With society access I can: Need Help? Contact SAGE Also from SAGE Publishing SAGE Journals Browse Resources Opportunities
Journal list menu Tools Follow journal Cookies disabled Cookies are disabled for this browser. Wiley Online Library requires cookies for authentication and use of other site features; therefore, cookies must be enabled to browse the site. Detailed information on how Wiley uses cookies can be found in our Privacy Policy. Additional links About Wiley Online Library Help & Support Opportunities Connect with Wiley Log in to Wiley Online Library Change Password Password Changed Successfully Your password has been changed Create a new account Forgot your password? Enter your email address below. Please check your email for instructions on resetting your password. If you do not receive an email within 10 minutes, your email address may not be registered, and you may need to create a new Wiley Online Library account. Request Username Can't sign in? Forgot your username? Enter your email address below and we will send you your username If the address matches an existing account you will receive an email with instructions to retrieve your username
Advertisement KOALA: a new paradigm for election coverage An opinion poll-based “now-cast” of probabilities of events in multi-party electoral systems AStA Advances in Statistical Analysis volume 104, pages 101–115 (2020)Cite this article 325 Accesses 1 Citations 3 Altmetric Metrics details Abstract Common election poll reporting is often misleading as sample uncertainty is addressed insufficiently or not covered at all. Furthermore, main interest usually lies beyond the simple party shares. For a more comprehensive opinion poll and election coverage, we propose shifting the focus toward the reporting of survey-based probabilities for specific events of interest. We present such an approach for multi-party electoral systems, focusing on probabilities of coalition majorities. A Monte Carlo approach based on a Bayesian Multinomial-Dirichlet model is used for estimation. Probabilities are estimated, assuming the election was held today (“now-cast”), not accounting for potential shifts in the electorate until election day (“fore-cast”). Since our method is based on the posterior distribution of party shares, the approach can be used to answer a variety of questions related to the outcome of an election. We also introduce visualization techniques that facilitate a more adequate depiction of relevant quantities as well as respective uncertainties. The benefits of our approach are discussed by application to the German federal elections in 2013 and 2017. An open-source implementation of our methods is freely available in the R package coalitions. This is a preview of subscription content, access via your institution. Access options Buy single article Instant access to the full article PDF. US$ 39.95 Tax calculation will be finalised during checkout. Subscribe to journal Immediate online access to all issues from 2019. Subscription will auto renew annually. US$ 79 Tax calculation will be finalised during checkout. Rent this article via DeepDyve. Learn more about Institutional subscriptions References Bender, A., Bauer, A.: Coalitions: coalition probabilities in multi-party democracies. J. Open Source Softw. 3(23) (2018). https://doi.org/10.21105/joss.00606. http://joss.theoj.org/papers/10.21105/joss.00606 Article Google Scholar Chang, W., Cheng, J., Allaire, J., Xie, Y., McPherson, J.: Shiny: Web Application Framework for R (2017). https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=shiny. R package version 1.0.5 FAZ.net: Umfrage zur Bundestagswahl: Schwarz-Gelb verliert die Mehrheit (2017). http://archive.is/SuXVt. Accessed 15 Feb 2018 Forsa: Wenn am nächsten Sonntag Bundestagswahl wäre... (2013). http://archive.is/f9vse. Accessed 15 Feb 2018 Forschungsgruppe Wahlen e.V.: Methodik der Politbarometer-Untersuchungen. As of (January 2019) Gelitz, C.: Können die aktuellen Umfragen noch falschliegen? (2017). http://archive.is/JydHd. Accessed 15 Feb 2018 Gelman, A., Carlin, J.B., Stern, H.S., Dunson, D.B., Vehtari, A., Rubin, D.B.: Bayesian Data Analysis, vol. 3. CRC Press, Boca Raton (2013) MATH Google Scholar Graefe, A.: The pollyvote’s long-term forecast for the 2017 German federal election. PS Polit. Sci. Polit. 50(3), 693–696 (2017) Article Google Scholar Grofman, B., Lijphart, A.: Electoral Laws and Their Political Consequences. Algora Publishing. ISBN 978-0-87586-267-5. Google-Books-ID: o1dqas0m8kIC (2003) Hanley, J.A., Negassa, A., Forrester, J.E.: Statistical analysis of correlated data using generalized estimating equations: an orientation. Am. J. Epidemiol. 157(4), 364–375 (2003) Article Google Scholar Küchenhoff, H., Thurner, P.W., Klima, A., Mauerer, I., Knieper, T., Haupt, H., Mang, S., Schnurbus, J., Walter-Rogg, M., Heinrich, T.: Universitätsstudie zur Bayernwahl USBW 18 (München – Passau – Regensburg). Erste Ergebnisse – Oktober 2018 (2018). https://www.stablab.stat.uni-muenchen.de/lehre/pdfs/usbw18.pdf Norpoth, H., Gschwend, T.: The chancellor model: forecasting German elections. Int. J. Forecast. 26(1), 42–53 (2010) Article Google Scholar Pickup, M., Matthews, J.S., Jennings, W., Ford, R., Fisher, S.D.: Why did the polls overestimate Liberal Democrat support? Sources of polling error in the 2010 British general election. J. Elect. Public Opin. Parties 21(2), 179–209 (2011) Article Google Scholar R Core Team: R: A Language and Environment for Statistical Computing. R Foundation for Statistical Computing, Vienna, Austria (2017). https://www.R-project.org/ Wilke, C.O.: ggridges: Ridgeline Plots in ‘ggplot2’ (2017). https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=ggridges. R package version 0.4.1 ZEIT ONLINE: Serie: Wahlistik (2013). http://archive.is/1SU1I. Accessed 15 Feb 2018 Download references Author information Affiliations Statistical Consulting Unit StaBLab, Department of Statistics, LMU München, Munich, Germany Alexander Bauer, Andreas Bender, André Klima & Helmut Küchenhoff You can also search for this author in PubMed Google Scholar You can also search for this author in PubMed Google Scholar You can also search for this author in PubMed Google Scholar You can also search for this author in PubMed Google Scholar Corresponding author Correspondence to Alexander Bauer. Additional information Publisher's Note Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations. Rights and permissions Reprints and Permissions About this article Cite this article Bauer, A., Bender, A., Klima, A. et al. KOALA: a new paradigm for election coverage. AStA Adv Stat Anal 104, 101–115 (2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/s10182-019-00352-6 Download citation Received: 07 August 2018 Accepted: 26 May 2019 Published: 04 June 2019 Issue Date: March 2020 DOI: https://doi.org/10.1007/s10182-019-00352-6 Share this article Anyone you share the following link with will be able to read this content: Sorry, a shareable link is not currently available for this article. Provided by the Springer Nature SharedIt content-sharing initiative Keywords Access options Buy single article Instant access to the full article PDF. US$ 39.95 Tax calculation will be finalised during checkout. Subscribe to journal Immediate online access to all issues from 2019. Subscription will auto renew annually. US$ 79 Tax calculation will be finalised during checkout. Rent this article via DeepDyve. Learn more about Institutional subscriptions Advertisement Over 10 million scientific documents at your fingertips Not logged in - 47.156.138.226 Not affiliated © 2021 Springer Nature Switzerland AG. Part of Springer Nature.
Uniting leading researchers in Germany, to strengthen regional, national and international competence in the field of machine learning and making corresponding potential accessible to users from science and industry. The Munich Center for Machine Learning In recent years, Machine Learning (ML) and Artificial Intelligence (AI) have become essential key technologies in all areas of our lives. The world would benefit massively from these new technologies. However, the migration of technologies from science to practice still remains a tough challenge. The Munich Center for Machine Learning (MCML) is made up of leading researchers from the Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität in Munich (LMU Munich) and the Technical University in Munich (TU Munich). They are experts in the fields of data science, computer science and statistics. The MCML is funded by the Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF) as one of six nationwide centers for AI and ML research and transfer. Pursuing the goal of strenghtening regional, national and international competence in the field of machine learning, MCML’s fundamental research is bundled in six profile areas: Spatial and Temporal Machine Learning Learning on Graphs and Network Representation Learning Automatic and Explainable Modeling Computational Models for Large-Scale Machine Learning Computer Vision MCML Directors Prof. Dr. Thomas Seidl is a professor for Computer Science and head of the Database Systems and Data Mining Group at LMU Munich. His fundamental research on data mining and database technologies with application domains in engineering, business, life science and humanities yielded more than 300 scientific publications so far. He serves on many program committees and scientific boards and is co-chair of the LMU Data Science Lab, the ZD.B Innovation Lab, the Munich School of Data Science @ Helmholtz, TUM & LMU (MuDS) and of the elite Master program in Data Science at LMU. Prof. Dr. Bernd Bischl is a professor for Computational Statistics at LMU Munich since 2015 and head of the Münchener R-Kurse. His research interests are data science, machine learning, model selection, model-based optimization, statistical software and parallel computing. Prof. Bischl is also a member of the steering committee of the Data Science Certificate Program of the LMU, where he teaches Machine Learning and Deep Learning. Prof. Dr. Daniel Cremers holds the chair for Computer Vision and Artificial Intelligence at TU Munich since 2009. In 2002 he obtained a PhD in Computer Science from the University of Mannheim, Germany. Subsequently he spent two years as a postdoctoral researcher at the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) and one year as a permanent researcher at Siemens Corporate Research in Princeton, NJ. From 2005 until 2009 he was associate professor at the University of Bonn, Germany. In 2016, Prof. Cremers received the Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz Award, the biggest award in German academia. Profile Areas Spatial and Temporal Machine Learning Prof. Dr. Nassir Navab, Prof. Dr. Volker Schmid, Prof. Dr. Matthias Schubert Spatial and spatio-temporal data, i.e. data with a dynamic spatial or time component such as sensor data or camera recordings, play an important role [...] Learning on Graphs and Networks Prof. Dr. Stephan Günnemann, Prof. Dr. Göran Kauermann, Prof. Dr. Volker Tresp In many data-intensive applications, from social media, genome research to mobility, attributed graphs and networks have proven to [...] Representation Learning Prof. Dr. Moritz Große-Wentrup, Prof. Dr. Hinrich Schütze, Prof. Dr. Dr. Fabian Theis The research field of representation learning involves the automated generation of meaningful features from high-dimensional data sets [...] Automatic and Explainable Modeling Prof. Dr. Bernd Bischl, Prof. Dr. Anne-Laure Boulesteix, PD Dr. Fabian Scheipl Valid benchmarking of machine learning methods is essential to gain robust guarantees for the practical use of models [...] Computational Models for Large-Scale Machine Learning Prof. Dr. Christian Böhm, Prof. Dr. Peer Kröger, Prof. Dr. Thomas Seidl The profile area “computational models for large-scale machine learning” focuses on several topics in the field of unsupervised machine learning [...] Computer Vision Prof. Dr. Daniel Cremers, Prof. Dr. Laura Leal-Taixé, Prof. Dr. Matthias Nießner This profile area is focused on a number of projects in the area of computer vision that revolve around the challenge of going beyond the classical neural networks and generalizing them in various ways [...] Partner The MCML is working on cutting-edge research projects in different areas of machine learning LMU München TU München HelmholtzZentrum München Plattform Lernende Systeme BMBF Services and Staff The MCML integrates several services, intended for collaboration and outreach to other research institutions, industry and startups. General Manager Dr. Elke Achtert mailto:contact@mcml.ai The general manager coordinates all activities within MCML and maintains relationships with partners outside the center. Industry Collaborations mailto:contact@mcml.ai The MCML is actively looking for collaborations at the intersections of research and industry. For additional information, contact us! Open Source and Open Data mailto:michel.lang@stat.uni-muenchen.de We want to actively contribute to the world of open source and open data. This means that we aim to share results of our research in an open source form. Practical trainings for students mailto:contact@mcml.ai The MCML offers in-depth practical trainings for students based on real industry or research questions and use cases. Statistical consulting https://www.stablab.stat.uni-muenchen.de/index.html The statistical consulting unit at LMU will integrate a wide variety of machine learning techniques into its portfolio. Professional Training Courses mailto:giuseppe.casalicchio@stat.uni-muenchen.de Machine Learning and programing skills are widely required in the digital era. We want to enable industry and research partners with those skills. Entrepreneurship-Training mailto:contact@mcml.ai We collaborate with the LMU Entrepreneurship Center to actively give our members and partners the opportunity to create a business out of research findings or their own ideas. Research Coordinator TUM mailto:contact@mcml.ai We aim to bring recent research advances from the field of machine learning into other domains by teaching university students. Contact Get in touch with us! mailto:contact@mcml.ai Are you interested in working with us, either as a researcher or in form of an industry or research cooperation? Do you see valuable use-cases for Machine Learning in your company? Are you a journalist reporting on the future of Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence? We look forward to hear from you via e-mail. Munich Center for Machine Learning Munich Center for Machine Learning Copyright © 2018 | All right reserved. Infinity Theme by Themefisher
Journal list menu Tools Follow journal Cookies disabled Cookies are disabled for this browser. Wiley Online Library requires cookies for authentication and use of other site features; therefore, cookies must be enabled to browse the site. Detailed information on how Wiley uses cookies can be found in our Privacy Policy. Additional links About Wiley Online Library Help & Support Opportunities Connect with Wiley Log in to Wiley Online Library Change Password Password Changed Successfully Your password has been changed Create a new account Forgot your password? Enter your email address below. Please check your email for instructions on resetting your password. If you do not receive an email within 10 minutes, your email address may not be registered, and you may need to create a new Wiley Online Library account. Request Username Can't sign in? Forgot your username? Enter your email address below and we will send you your username If the address matches an existing account you will receive an email with instructions to retrieve your username
Journal list menu Tools Follow journal Cookies disabled Cookies are disabled for this browser. Wiley Online Library requires cookies for authentication and use of other site features; therefore, cookies must be enabled to browse the site. Detailed information on how Wiley uses cookies can be found in our Privacy Policy. Additional links About Wiley Online Library Help & Support Opportunities Connect with Wiley Log in to Wiley Online Library Change Password Password Changed Successfully Your password has been changed Create a new account Forgot your password? Enter your email address below. Please check your email for instructions on resetting your password. If you do not receive an email within 10 minutes, your email address may not be registered, and you may need to create a new Wiley Online Library account. Request Username Can't sign in? Forgot your username? Enter your email address below and we will send you your username If the address matches an existing account you will receive an email with instructions to retrieve your username
IWSM 2017 is supported by Open Access Sessionsponsored by: Welcome! The 32nd edition of the IWSM was held in Groningen (Netherlands) from 2 to 7 July 2017, hosted by the University of Groningen. It was held in the Academiegebouw in the city centre of Groningen. Photos Photos from IWSM are available on Flickr. Proceedings The proceedings will be available during the conference: Volume I and Volume II. IWSM is one of the major activities of the Statistical Modelling Society, founded with the purpose of promoting and encouraging statistical modelling in its widest sense, involving both academic and professional statisticians and data analysts. Since its first edition, the spirit of the workshop has always been to focus on problems motivated by real life data and on solutions that make novel contributions to the subject. The atmosphere of the workshop is friendly and supportive, with no parallel sessions, with the aim of stimulating the exchange of ideas and experiences related to statistical modelling. As a sign of positive feedback the IWSMs report many returning participants. Papers focusing on applications with important substantive implications as well as methodological issues are welcome. Submissions by students and young researchers are particularly encouraged. New information about the 32nd IWSM will be continuously added on this website. Important dates Links
People at CDTM Students Students Highly motivated and talented students from different disciplines who are passionate about digital technology and strive to put their ideas into practice to shape the world of tomorrow. Management Team Management Team The Management Team is responsible for the operation of the CDTM study program and research. They define the strategy, design the academic program and curriculum, sketch new research opportunities and are responsible for growing the network of partners. Board of Directors Board of Directors The Board consists of renowned professors from Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München (LMU) and Technische Universität München (TUM). The board is involved to take the major strategic and organizational decisions. Lecturers Lecturers Renowned international lecturers from both science and industry contribute with their expertise. Also, many CDTM alumni stay in close touch and return as lecturers e.g. in facilitation sessions or elective courses.
CLASSES OF CDTM Spring 2021 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 Spring 2020 Fall 2019 Spring 2019 Fall 2018 Spring 2018 Fall 2017 Spring 2017 Fall 2016 Spring 2016 Fall 2015 Spring 2015 Fall 2014 Spring 2014 Fall 2013 Spring 2013 Fall 2012 Spring 2012 Fall 2011 Spring 2011 Fall 2010 Spring 2010 Fall 2009 Fall 2008 Spring 2008 Fall 2007 Spring 2007 Fall 2006 Spring 2006 Fall 2005 Spring 2005 Fall 2004 Spring 2004 Fall 2003 Spring 2003 Spring 2002 Fall 2001
MANAGEMENT TEAM The Management Team is responsible for the management and operation of the CDTM study program and research. They define the strategy, design the academic program and curriculum, sketch new research opportunities and are responsible for financing, marketing, recruiting, growing the network of partners and associated tasks. Tom Schelo Nikolai Kraler2018-11-26T21:49:10+01:00Responsibilities: Entrepreneurship LaboratoryMarketing and Branding| Anna-Sophie Liebender-Luc Alexis Gamboa2020-10-27T17:44:26+01:00Responsibilities: Trend Seminar Community Engagement| Aaron Defort Lisa Neu2021-07-06T09:58:21+02:00Responsibilities: Entrepreneurship LaboratoryEducation| Elizaveta Felsche Charlotte Kobiella2020-03-26T22:11:24+01:00Responsibilities: Entrepreneurship LaboratoryMarketing and Branding| Carla Pregel Hoderlein Johnny Bonk2021-07-02T12:43:32+02:00Responsibilities: Trend SeminarStrategic Partnerships Taskforce | Franz X. Waltenberger Alexis Gamboa2021-07-13T16:24:51+02:00Responsibilities: Trend SeminarEntrepreneurship| Theresa Doppstadt Charlotte Kobiella2019-11-11T23:19:11+01:00Responsibilities: Managing Product DevelopmentPeople Operations| Philipp Hulm Lisa Neu2019-01-14T17:46:51+01:00Responsibilities: Trend SeminarCommunity Engagement| Philipp Hofsommer Nikolai Kraler2019-02-19T13:34:43+01:00Responsibilities: Trend SeminarStrategic Partnerships| Michael Fröhlich Nikolai Kraler2019-11-06T23:56:38+01:00Responsibilities: Managing Product DevelopmentEntrepreneurshipIT| Jose Adrian Vega Vermehren diegomarti2021-08-17T14:05:18+02:00Responsibilities: Managing Product DevelopmentCenter Life Taskforce| Amelie Pahl Tiger Guo2021-04-13T03:41:49+02:00Responsibilities: Entrepreneurship Laboratory Community Engagement|
LECTURERS Renowned international lecturers from both science and industy contribute with their expertise. Also many CDTM alumni stay in close touch with the center and return as lecturers e.g. in facilitation sessions or elective courses. Vittoria Piattelli Julian Geuder Dr. Philip Mayrhofer Dr. Alexander Wiethoff Dr. Andreas Franz Benedikt Lehnert Christian Schraml Christian Margolus Dr. Christian Göttsch Dr. David Hoeflmayr Dennis Wetzig Diana Schneider
JOIN US! INTERESTED IN JOINING THE CDTM? Apply to the interdisciplinary add-on study program “Technology Management” to be one of the new students starting next semester. We are curious and happy to meet you and to maybe soon welcome you as a new member of CDTM. Find all the application requirements below. HOW TO APPLY HOW TO APPLY ADMISSION Every semester, approximately 25 students start their studies in „Technology Management“ at CDTM. All students go through a rigorous selection process consisting of an online written application and a personal interview. The two-stage interview process guarantees a high level of qualification of the students admitted to the program. DOCUMENTS During the application you will need the following: Before you start your application, please ensure you meet the formal requirements. DEADLINES Apply until May 30th 23:59 CET (fall term) for an intake in August and by November 30th 23:59 CET (spring term) for an intake in the following February. Applications open May 1st for the intake in August and November 1st for the intake in the following February. The upcoming Trend Seminar for the Class of Fall 2021 starts August 10th. More information can be found in our FAQs (“Program Structure”). Please submit your application via the online application system. Information events take place in November and May of every year. OPEN QUESTIONS? OPEN QUESTIONS? You are wondering how you can combine your studies with our Honors Degree in Technology Management? You have questions about the application process? You would like to meet current students and find out what it is like to study at the CDTM? Get to know us at our upcoming events or follow us on our social media channels to stay up to date! START TODAY! For your application please walk through the CDTM online application system and register as a new user.
TALENTS AT CDTM Students projects in the context of digital innovation We believe the best way to get to know one another is through work on innovative challenges. Every semester 10-15 industry partners are closely collaborating with our students on cutting-edge challenges as part of our innovation formats and convince one another with their know-how, philosophy and engagement. Find out more about our innovation formats. Get exposure within the CDTM community You would like to increase your presence at the CDTM and get in closer contact with our students and alumni? We offer you the following services to present your company or organization within the CDTM community and beyond: Please get in touch with us to get an individualized offers that suit your needs. Funding of PhD Positions PhD candidates conduct research as part of their dissertation project and are supervised by excellent CDTM Board Professors at either LMU or TUM. If you are interested in a comprehensive and holistic scientific overview of a topic of high relevance for your organization and industry funding a PhD position might be an interesting opportunity for you. Contact Us Carla Pregel Hoderlein Contact Us Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Subject Your Message
SHARE YOUR EXPERTISE Domain experts within the CDTM curriculum We believe that in an innovation context, knowledge shared by domain experts trumps the theoretical studying of textbooks. Thus, we invite domain experts to spread their insights to the next generation of innovators. For our course formats we are continuously looking for experts in the following fields: Speakers for CDTM Future Leadership Series The CDTM Future Leadership Series (FLS) is a speaker series about leadership topics. At each FLS, one highly successful leader from business, politics or society provides unique insights into their career, leadership philosophy in an intimate fireside chat. Past speakers include Roman Herzog (Former President of Germany), Jeff Burton (Co-Founder Electronic Arts), Joe Kaeser (CEO Siemens), Philipp Rösler (Managing Director of World Economic Forum) and many more. Do you know inspiring leaders that would like to share their story in a CDTM Future Leadership event? Let’s talk! Speakers for CDTM Inspire&Dine The CDTM Inspire&Dine is an open TED-talk like evening with three to four inspiring speakers and 300+ ambitious students and young professionals. Speakers come from diverse fields and share a passion for technology, innovation, entrepreneurship and extraordinary stories. In the past, we have hosted professional violinists, business leaders, neuroscientists and AI-experts, who inspired the audience with their talks. Do you know inspiring personalities or would like to share your story in one of the next CDTM Inspire&Dine events? Let’s talk! Upcoming Inspire&Dine Events Contact Us Carla Pregel Hoderlein Contact Us Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Subject Your Message
YOUR WAY TO CDTM Visitor Address Center for Digital Technology and Management Marsstr. 20-22 80335 Munich, Germany CDTM is located on the ground floor. PDF Directions – How to find us POSTAL ADDRESS Center for Digital Technology and Management Arcisstr. 21 80333 Munich, Germany Communication Phone: +49 89 289 – 28567 Fax: +49 89 289 – 28459 info@cdtm.de
Center Stories Effective Organization Building Building an effective organization is a huge challenge and 90% of startups fail in the attempt to do so. Although there is always lots of luck involved, there are also some principles and frameworks that might make this attempt more structured and successful. And who could talk about these [...] SELF LEADERSHIP BACKBONE AT CDTM WITH bridgingpositions At the center, we are surrounded by motivated and curious people who usually have too many things at once on their plate and only realize they shouldn´t have taken on the next side project when it is too late. Together with Julian Geuder from bridgingpositions, a recurring guest at [...] Females of impact series: Prof. Dr. Isabell M. Welpe Today we have the pleasure to have Prof. Dr. Isabell Welpe featured on our latest edition of Females of Impact Series. We will explore her professional journey; the challenges, motivations and influences that led her from a student unsure about her career, to a lead researcher on her field and [...] Sustainability Landscape 2021 CDTM empowers the innovators of tomorrow to solve pressing real-world problems. We are convinced that climate change is one of the biggest challenges we are currently facing. It thus comes as no surprise that tackling climate change is a topic dear to our hearts as Centerlings. In 2018, the [...] TREND SEMINAR FALL 2020: INDEPENDENT LIVING FOR THE ELDERLY With the end of 2020, I recap what this year has been about, mostly the pandemic one could say. Challenges and difficult times were predominant this year. But also, the beginning of something great, the start of a new class at the CDTM. By the start of August, the [...] Interface Aesthetics – CDTM Elective 2020 Again, in 2020 this elective inspired from a lecture of UC Berkeley was offered to active students and Alumni at CDTM. In a very interdisciplinary setting ranging from designers to complete newbies to the topic the course offered four input lectures and assignments to practice the theory. At CDTM [...] Females of impact series: Josephine Kühl Welcome to our Females of Impact Series, where we peek into the exciting lives and journeys of our CDTM Alumnae. Today, we have the pleasure to present our interview with Josephine Kühl. Josephine currently holds a role as Consultant at Bain & Company, where she not only drives impact [...] Females of Impact series: CDTM Alumnae changing the world! The greatest pride of the CDTM is to see their community creating impact and fulfilling their goals and plans, on many instances, to an immeasurable success. Their progress is filled with obstacles, perseverance and hard work, and each story is an unique portrait of resiliency and effort from which [...] TREND SEMINAR SPRING 2020: PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION IN THE DIGITAL ERA While sitting here and drinking a cup of coffee, I lean back in my chair and remember the past seven weeks - “Trend Seminar, wow, what a journey”. A big smile appears on my face and a feeling of accomplishment kicks in. As the caffeine starts to rush through [...] VC La Famiglia announces €50 million fund to uncover the sleeping giants of B2B tech, joined by CDTM entrepreneurs Berlin, 12th August, 2020: La Famiglia – the VC backed by some of the world’s most successful entrepreneurs, family businesses and industry leaders – has announced a €50 million fund to uncover the next-generation of B2B giants. Next to established industry founders, a group of entrepreneurs and CDTM alumni, [...]
About Johnny Bonk eLab in summer term 2021 After a few semesters, when students at CDTM have successfully completed both MPD and Trend Seminar and some electives, it is time for each Centerling to tackle the last of the three core courses: The Entrepreneurship Laboratory (eLab). The eLab is a twelve-week long project-based course Thus, the contents [...] Effective Organization Building Building an effective organization is a huge challenge and 90% of startups fail in the attempt to do so. Although there is always lots of luck involved, there are also some principles and frameworks that might make this attempt more structured and successful. And who could talk about these [...] Holy Cow! The environmental cost of your food choice Does the food I eat impact climate change? Yes. About 26% of all the planet-warming greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are coming from what we eat on a daily basis. This number is almost two times greater than the fossil fuels burned for all the cars, trains, planes, and ships [...] Conscious Leadership & Meditation Living in a time when we are constantly busy and look towards the next big thing we want to achieve, it is difficult to stay present and live in the moment. This highly affects our leadership style and how we communicate and work with others, but at the same [...] SELF LEADERSHIP BACKBONE AT CDTM WITH bridgingpositions At the center, we are surrounded by motivated and curious people who usually have too many things at once on their plate and only realize they shouldn´t have taken on the next side project when it is too late. Together with Julian Geuder from bridgingpositions, a recurring guest at [...] Recycling – 5 things you should know about your waste Recycling – 5 things you should know about your waste In recent years, many of us have become more conscious of our purchasing decisions. We started carefully considering the details of the products we buy and we are often happy to pay double the price if a tag says [...]
SELF LEADERSHIP BACKBONE AT CDTM WITH bridgingpositions At the center, we are surrounded by motivated and curious people who usually have too many things at once on their plate and only realize they shouldn´t have taken on the next side project when it is too late. Together with Julian Geuder from bridgingpositions, a recurring guest at the center, we had the chance to take a step back for a moment and rethink why we are doing what we are doing. During three intense and emotional days, many of us could answer important questions such as “What should the next step in my life journey look like?”, “Am I currently on the right path?” and “What do I really care about now and in the future?”. Julian managed to create what felt like an incredibly safe space to talk about personal topics such as our childhood, purpose, values and ambitions and guided us with the help of a well-structured process through the complicated and sometimes tough topics we were handling. Through the Self-Leadership Backbone, we got to know ourselves but also each other better. In three days, we went from In each of these steps, Julian used different methods and frameworks to guide us. Besides journaling and self-reflection walks, this also included long outside walks in (virtual) groups of three, listening to and giving each other feedback on the phone. This format did not only give us the chance to finally spend considerable time away from the screen but also enabled us to get to know each other more deeply and talk about things we would otherwise probably only discuss with our most intimate friends. After every walk, we would come together and reflect with the whole group what we learned and what were the key takeaways. Despite many realizations being very personal and everyone interpreting them in their own way, among the most recurring insights were that What struck me the most was how people interpret your stories and challenges in their own way, see connections that you couldn´t see before, and add their own thoughts which are entirely new, sometimes even eye-opening for yourself. Concluding, we probably all left this elective with a more thoughtful, reflected approach to our lives. Some with big reinvention projects ahead of them, some reassured in what they are doing at the moment, but for sure all a little more connected, conscious and purpose-driven. We are very thankful to Julian and bridgingpositions for once again providing this great experience to the CDTM students on a pro bono basis. We will spread the word and hopefully create a more giving world altogether. Also, thanks to the Center for Digital Technology and Management (CDTM) for showing us that there is more to leadership than hard work! Share On Social Media! Related Posts IoT Hardware Prototyping Elective 2021 eLab in summer term 2021 Effective Organization Building Recent Posts Archives Categories
Females of impact series: Prof. Dr. Isabell M. Welpe Today we have the pleasure to have Prof. Dr. Isabell Welpe featured on our latest edition of Females of Impact Series. We will explore her professional journey; the challenges, motivations and influences that led her from a student unsure about her career, to a lead researcher on her field and a voice of Impact in the area of Strategy and Organization, Digital Transformation and the Impact of Emerging Technologies. Interview with Prof. Dr. Isabell M. Welpe Alexis: Let us start with a small introduction Prof. Welpe: My name is Isabell and I’m a professor for strategy and organization at TUM Munich and current academic director from the TUM side of CDTM. I am a CDTM alumna from the first class ever in 1998 and I am also very fond about digitalization disruption, diversity and decentralization. Alexis: What were your expectations and goals when you started university? Did you already have hints of your academic future career? Prof. Welpe: Originally, I had studied psychology in the University of Konstanz, and I felt entrepreneurial and management aspects wise missing. I wanted to switch to Munich to study both management and psychology. Unfortunately, it was not possible at the time. Later, as many people know, I was not always happy studying management at LMU. If I had not met Prof. Arnold Picot, one of the founders of CDTM, I think I might have quit studying management. Prof. Arnold Picot, together with Manfred Broy, Andrew Kelly and Jörg Eberspächer, started CDTM. I am very thankful they did, I joined the program and immediately loved it. CDTM has been transformative for many people and for me as well. I went to MIT with CDTM and that really turned my outlook on management studies around and I quite happily finished. I did not think about an academic future at all at that time. Later I went to England to study at the London School of Economics and then I decided to do my PhD but, to be honest, it was mainly because doing a PhD somewhat enables you to explore career options and I felt allured by that possibility. Alexis: It looks like the academic career came as a result of the process and not as its main target. Prof. Welpe: I am very happy with this career, with my profession and with working at TUM as a professor. It is a great job, but I only felt so once I arrived at TUM. TUM is a great place to do research and teaching. Alexis: Are you happy with the process leading up to your academic profession? Prof. Welpe: Absolutely! Something that guided me during the process is that I preferred to be on my own schedule, to work entrepreneurially, was very important to me, and that is something academia offers. Alexis: People might enjoy different scenarios and there is no single path that fits everyone. It seems particularly important to discover what do you really want. Prof. Welpe: And what do you not want. Pay attention to what you prefer, where you like to be, the places you seek out again and again – that will guide you to the right place for you. After my PhD I was working for the EU delegation at the United Nations in New York. I had the best boss ever there and I could observe my colleagues were happy. It was just not the right place for me. I ended up organizing lots of things after hours. Pay attention to what even your body reactions are in certain work settings. I would advise to listen to that. Alexis: Part of your research and projects gravitate around leadership. What sparked your interest to dedicate your research to this topic? Prof. Welpe: If you do your habilitation in organization studies, leadership in the role of leaders and followers in organizations is one of the things you must do research about. It comes down to; what are your core values? What kind of people inspire you? For me, the stories that inspired me are those of people that have been able to withstand “the sins of their time.” This pattern is also linked to innovation and interestingly, it is also linked to humanitarian causes. I have always been fascinated by people who stand out from the crowd and will go their own way, whether it is in saving people, like many did during the Second World War helping persecuted victims, or whether it was people who took decisions against all odds. If you take it to an economic perspective, the great disruptors are always people who were belittled by the men and women of their time but would take the risk. At the end, they often succeed, not always and even if they did, usually was at some personal cost. Alexis: Following important topics of our time, let’s talk about diversity. As an expert in strategy and organization, what impact does diversity has on organizations on the long term? Prof. Welpe: Our research group has been doing research on women in leadership and diversity in leadership and organizations for over 10 years. Some years ago, I reckoned that the public would start to lose interest in these topics, I was obviously wrong, as they are high on the agenda today. Up to date, there is no study that shows that, any social or demographic group outperforms any other by virtue of their social or demographic characteristics. Talent is equally distributed across genders, nationalities, ages, etc. This is the main reason you want to have social and demographic diversity. If you only employ people, let’s say, Norwegian females that are early risers, you will miss out on a lot of talented people who like to work at night from Sweden. Diversity also means cognitive diversity with different perspectives and opinions. There is value in tolerating and encouraging different diverse perspectives. Alexis: Now a less pleasant topic, failure. Did you experience through your career failure? If so, what did you learn from it? Prof. Welpe: In my 20s when I observed my fellow students from LMU management being happy to work in a corporate 9-5 jobs. I felt different from them in that regard. When I did my habilitation and had the first job talks I was anxious to find out whether all the investment you have taken all those years pays off. I remember some early rejections and I remember thinking: – Will I ever get a tenured job at university? Through my failures I learned to hang on and to try again and again. It did all work out in the end, but it makes you humble in a way. It makes you appreciate things that work out more. Alexis: Now to a more positive turn. How do you measure success, and what are the key factors to achieve it? Prof. Welpe: I have a very easy answer for that: If you can lead the life you want. That is the measure for success, I think. of course that includes the challenge of figuring out, what kind of life do you want and what does society tell you to want. I think the main challenge when you are in your early 20s is to distinguish what makes you happy, what gives you energy, regardless to what society defines as a great job. If you don’t know yourself, then you risk “occupying a house that’s been purpose built for someone else.” It is a pre-constructed home and society gives some thought into that, but it is not a purpose-built home for you and that is what you really want. It’s an old thing, right? Know thyself! Alexis: Now for the last question, what is your message (or advice) to all students interested in developing their high impact or entrepreneurial career? Prof. Welpe: I think when it comes to entrepreneurship … Do it! I have a lot of mentees whose CVS are stunning and often they are thinking about how to put the next star on their shoulder claps. I say to them, you are already a high potential. You can now switch from being a high potential to realizing your potential. I don’t think you need to work at a consultancy company just to prepare for a startup. If you want to learn about management, run your own company! The other aspect is community and networking. Meetings, socializing, showing up even if you don’t know who will be there and what will happen, those are most important parts, so don’t leave that out. You don’t know beforehand if you meet someone, who has valuable insight or interesting discussions. That’s where the magic happens, the serendipity! My last advice is a topic well developed by Adam Grant on his book “Give or Take.” If you have a gift, a talent, I encourage you to share it generously and freely! Empower other people. Somehow, magically, it will come back to you, I cannot explain how it works, but will come back. People will think positively about you, they will remember your expertise and how you generously shared your knowledge, and it creates positive self-reinforcing circle. Alexis: We would like to know on which channels can we follow you? Prof. Welpe: Mostly twitter these days. Alexis: Thank you very much for joining us, we appreciate sharing this time with you! Prof. Welpe: You’re so welcome. Know Thyself We are in a present that offers many choices and paths to all kind of goals, and this access to options might overwhelm us. The stories, experiences and advices from Prof. Welpe are great examples of how these circumstances can be overcomed and on how to guide our own journey when building your own future, or a Prof. Welpe defines it: “building your own house”. If you would like to follow Prof. Welpe and stay updated on her works don’t forget to follow her on Twitter! In an added note, the book “Give or Take” by Adam Grant, and the concept developed in the book, was recommended as well by Josephine Kühl, our last guest of this series! Thank you Prof. Welpe for sharing your story with all of us! Share On Social Media! Related Posts Effective Organization Building Holy Cow! The environmental cost of your food choice Conscious Leadership & Meditation Recent Posts Archives Categories
About Alexis Gamboa Females of impact series: Prof. Dr. Isabell M. Welpe Today we have the pleasure to have Prof. Dr. Isabell Welpe featured on our latest edition of Females of Impact Series. We will explore her professional journey; the challenges, motivations and influences that led her from a student unsure about her career, to a lead researcher on her field and [...] Sustainability Landscape 2021 CDTM empowers the innovators of tomorrow to solve pressing real-world problems. We are convinced that climate change is one of the biggest challenges we are currently facing. It thus comes as no surprise that tackling climate change is a topic dear to our hearts as Centerlings. In 2018, the [...] TREND SEMINAR FALL 2020: INDEPENDENT LIVING FOR THE ELDERLY With the end of 2020, I recap what this year has been about, mostly the pandemic one could say. Challenges and difficult times were predominant this year. But also, the beginning of something great, the start of a new class at the CDTM. By the start of August, the [...] THE ELAB – CONSULTING PROJECTS FOR STUDENTS You want to learn how to consult start-ups and corporates in strategic issues? Join the CDTM to learn this in the third and last core course - the Entrepreneurship Laboratory (eLab) - in projects with company partners and in helpful sessions that teach the skills required to provide solutions [...] Interface Aesthetics – CDTM Elective 2020 Again, in 2020 this elective inspired from a lecture of UC Berkeley was offered to active students and Alumni at CDTM. In a very interdisciplinary setting ranging from designers to complete newbies to the topic the course offered four input lectures and assignments to practice the theory. At CDTM [...] Females of impact series: Josephine Kühl Welcome to our Females of Impact Series, where we peek into the exciting lives and journeys of our CDTM Alumnae. Today, we have the pleasure to present our interview with Josephine Kühl. Josephine currently holds a role as Consultant at Bain & Company, where she not only drives impact [...] WE RUN FOR BEIRUT Like many of you might have heard, on October 9th, 2020 the CDTM Charity Run –Beirut Edition– took place.It all began as a random idea when we thought that it would be nice to have a real running competition again because all official events got cancelled due to Covid-19. Also, [...] Entrepreneurship to counteract waste through to-go food for sustainable development Due to the pandemic, restaurants are forced to shut down their service. Many of them now sell their dishes as take-away or provide the possibility of delivery to keep up their sales. However, this means that the food and drinks need to be packaged. The to-go packaging waste amounts [...] Females of Impact series: CDTM Alumnae changing the world! The greatest pride of the CDTM is to see their community creating impact and fulfilling their goals and plans, on many instances, to an immeasurable success. Their progress is filled with obstacles, perseverance and hard work, and each story is an unique portrait of resiliency and effort from which [...] Boosting student’s mental health – Center Venture 2020 As almost every year, this year the CDTM offered the popular Center Venture elective again. Despite the challenging situation due to COVID-19, the two-week elective in a hackathon format took place in a hybrid setting resulting in two impactful project outcomes. Following past topics such as entrepreneurship in robotics [...]
Sustainability Landscape 2021 CDTM empowers the innovators of tomorrow to solve pressing real-world problems. We are convinced that climate change is one of the biggest challenges we are currently facing. It thus comes as no surprise that tackling climate change is a topic dear to our hearts as Centerlings. In 2018, the CDTM Climate Club was established to bring climate action to the center. At the Climate Club, we not only aim to make the CDTM a role model in matters of sustainability by deeply embedding sustainable and social responsibility in our education, operations and individual lives at CDTM. We also want to connect with other sustainable organizations to support each other and to share resources. WHAT IS THE CDTM CLIMATE CLUB? A student initiative with the mission to empower CDTM to contribute to limiting climate catastrophe. We have set ourselves 4 targets for 2021 to systematically change the CDTM to become a forerunner in climate action. With more than 140 members in our slack channel we share resources & tips, and connect engaged centerlings. Read more about the Climate Club here. We therefore did not need to be asked twice to join a project with four Munich-based venture capital firms to create a sustainability landscape. Although much is happening in the sustainability space in the DACH region, up to that point there was no comprehensive overview on sustainable organizations operating in this market. We often had a hard time to identify relevant partners in the sustainability space and we had the feeling that many of us were pushing towards the same direction and tackling the same problems without even knowing about each other. Hence, we clearly saw a need for a comprehensive overview from which everyone in and around the sustainability ecosystem – startups, VCs, networks, accelerators, sustainability enthusiasts, and many more – could benefit substantially simply from knowing about each other. In cooperation with HV Capital, Ananda, Acton, and Plug & Play, we thus created a (non-exhaustive) overview on the sustainable organizations headquartered in the DACH region structured by industries. APPROACH While this landscape represents our perspective on the scene and is by no means an exhaustive list, we aimed for a balanced view. We included all kinds of organizations, from early startups to established corporates. Out of a pre-selection of over 300 sustainable startups and 50 VCs, networks, accelerators and event formats (which we grouped under the term “ecosystem”) in the sustainability space, we curated the following landscape based on the impact and potential of organizations. Industries and sectors were chosen based on their leverage and crowdedness. Although some startups would fit into more than one category, compared to other approaches such as dividing by SDGs, this appeared to yield the most intuitive visualization. WHAT´S NEXT? We believe climate change and sustainability are the most relevant topics of our time and we should all come together to create awareness and support solutions in this space – be it through becoming a paying customer, choosing one of the startups as an employer or investing in them. The sustainability landscape 2021 is intended to help us do so! So, feel free to reach out to organizations on the map and to us. Let this be a starting point for conversations and collaborations to push sustainability initiatives around DACH even further. If you feel you should be mentioned in our 2022 landscape, help us by giving us some information here. Find the full, downloadable list and links to the organization´s websites here. If you have any ideas, feedback or would like to partner with us, please reach out to us on climateclub@cdtm.de. ————————————————- Lisa Oberaigner (Fall 2020) and Christian Wanzek (Fall 2020) on behalf of the CDTM Climate Club Share On Social Media! Related Posts IoT Hardware Prototyping Elective 2021 eLab in summer term 2021 Effective Organization Building Recent Posts Archives Categories
TREND SEMINAR FALL 2020: INDEPENDENT LIVING FOR THE ELDERLY With the end of 2020, I recap what this year has been about, mostly the pandemic one could say. Challenges and difficult times were predominant this year. But also, the beginning of something great, the start of a new class at the CDTM. By the start of August, the teaching experience at the CDTM had changed. With the pandemic, in-person meetings, blackboards overflowing with post-it notes and, table soccer games during breaks had to be replaced with video calls, original virtual backgrounds and, of course, memes (more of this coming soon). From the beginning of the pandemic, the CDTM had done what it does best. It had digitally transformed. The traditional in-person Kickoff weekend had to be replaced by a virtual one. However, CDTM was already well versed in how to make the most out of virtual meetings. A couple of days before their first day, all 27 new students received a welcome package thanks to Plantura and the CDTM People Ops Task Force. Welcome package for the Fall 2020 class. Essentials such as a branded CDTM mask and an onion could not be missing. Memorable stories, conversations and toasts happened through our virtual Kickoff. It left us wanting to start right away with our Trend Seminar. Our wish was soon fulfilled, the first day arrived. Following the tradition, Center Assistants purposefully hide from the new class the project partner and topic of the Trend Seminar. Therefore, our class remained clueless on what project or industry we would be working for the next seven weeks. The revelation came as a surprise to all of us. Mainly because of the direct impact that the industry had in all of our lives. During the Kickoff weekend, we came up with wild guesses out of the clues we could get. However, none of them came even close to the magnitude of the industry we were about to tackle – independent living for the elderly. All of us knew someone that would be affected by our work. It triggered the feeling that we could have an impact and change people’s lives for the better. How can we empower older people through technology? What can people do to prepare for an independent aging? What will elderly living look like in 20 years from now? We were to tackle these questions and more – we were ready. Our project partner, alley, represented by Dr. Anne Latz were experts in the healthcare field. As an app to accompany people with complex diseases through their sometimes cumbersome treatment path, alley was at the forefront of innovation for healthcare and value based managed care – we were in good company. Ahead of us were seven weeks of intense research, group work, and input lectures prepared to convert us into experts of the field. First, in the basic phase, we would be split into teams to identify trends and current developments in areas ranging from emerging business models to technology. Then, in the scenario phase, we would identify the most important drivers. This would allow us to define a scenario matrix with four different outcomes representing the outlook of the independent living for the elderly in 2040. Lastly, the ideation phase would follow. Throughout basic and scenario phase, we would build industry knowledge, identifying problems and challenges that would serve as inspiration for the ideation phase. In this last phase, we were to develop new business ideas that would be resilient to the different outcomes identified during the scenario phase. The Trend Seminar continued. The pandemic had allowed Europe to take a break and enjoy the summer. The sun shined intensely allowing parks to be full of people sharing their newly re-gained freedom after dark months. We would meet in small groups to work together or watch input lectures following the COVID-19 restrictions. As soon as there was some free time, we would meet up to go for lunch, play volleyball in the park or go hiking. By the end of the Trend Seminar, we had answered many of the questions that were initially posed to us. We had found how technology would play a role in the life of the future elderly, how societal changes could foster new business opportunities or how a future pandemic would affect the life of the elderly. After hours of ideation, we produced +200 business ideas from which we elaborated a shortlist of 25 ideas, and selected five in the midterm presentation presenting them to our project partner. The Trend Seminar had been an incredible and intense journey in which we became experts of the elderly market. But equally important, we had got to know each other, bonded as a class and joined a community that will shape not only our future but hopefully the world. If you are curious about our findings during our Trend Seminar, you can replay our final presentation here. Also, stay tuned for the final Trend Seminar report which will cover in detail all the findings of the Fall 2020 class regarding independent living for the elderly. Follow us on LinkedIn, Instagram and Facebook to be kept in the loop. TAKE A LOOK AT WHAT THE TREND SEMINAR LOOKED LIKE: The first day of the Trend Seminar was held in a hybrid manner and followed the hygiene rules. Lots of virtual meetings, but always with a smile. Some from Fall 2020 did age a bit during the Trend Seminar… Lots of uncoordinated Yoga sessions (we are working on it). Team Lunches in the park. Some spontaneous dabbers within the CA team. I promised that memes were coming! Share On Social Media! Related Posts IoT Hardware Prototyping Elective 2021 eLab in summer term 2021 Effective Organization Building Recent Posts Archives Categories
Interface Aesthetics – CDTM Elective 2020 Again, in 2020 this elective inspired from a lecture of UC Berkeley was offered to active students and Alumni at CDTM. In a very interdisciplinary setting ranging from designers to complete newbies to the topic the course offered four input lectures and assignments to practice the theory. At CDTM the innovators of tomorrow are connected, educated and empowered. The aim of this elective was to provide a new toolset to the students to feel empowered and educated when designing their prototypes and talking or giving feedback about interface aesthetics. How do I design a screen? How can I communicate with a designer? How do I give a design critique? Throughout the different sessions and assignments all these questions were answered and practiced. Why are interface aesthetics important for creating successful products? Have you ever scrolled down a website, changed tabs, went back to the home screen and still you couldn’t figure out what they offer, or sell, or where the button is you are looking for? Probably you didn’t last more than 30 seconds on such a website. You googled again and looked for another company offering a similar service, but with a very clear and nice-looking website. This is the key. You can program a product that has incredible functionalities, but if it is not intuitive, compelling from a design perspective and doesn’t give you joy to use, you won’t find many customers. Beautiful things simply make us more happy. My background is in Electrical Engineering and my knowledge about interface aesthetics was almost non-existent when I started the elective. Many of us use our gut-feeling when analyzing an interface and say things like: “In this screen something feels off.” And very often we can’t say exactly what it is. In this elective I have learned to understand what is that feels off in a screen and which guidelines should be considered when designing a screen or which rules broken in certain occasions. Source: https://www.nngroup.com/articles/mental-models/ What were the teaching modules of the interface aesthetics elective? Everything started with the Gestalt Principles. Franz Zünkler, Industrial Designer and Centerling from Class Spring 19 introduced us to the powerful world of Gestalt. With these principles you can create a visual hierarchy in your layouts. For example, through having similar shapes, colors or proximity you group them together and can highlight a certain aspect by making it different to the rest of the group. Another important aspect produced by following gestalt principles is balance and rhythm. You can create a very harmonious and balanced screen depending on where you place your objects. Dynamism can be introduced into the screen by giving the objects a certain rhythm. Keep in mind, that interfaces produce emotions and depending on which emotion you want to convey you should design your screen accordingly. How did we practice the gestalt principles? By using black blocks and designing weather apps! These screens in the image below convey different emotions as whimsical and delicate, or dynamic and fierce. The second lecture was held by Maximilian Wühr, founder of Finn Auto and Centerling from Class Fall 16. In his lecture we learned everything about typography. He explained to us how typography gives personality to a screen depending on the font type. You can choose a serif or sans serif font, you can design the size of the letters and words, and you can use kerning to define the distance between letters. All these tools help you create more attention towards certain words and provides readability to a screen. We also learned how different font families can be combined, but not all of them work well together. Max also provided us with a set of rules to follow when thinking about combining different font types: We practiced this by designing again weather app screens that contained only text. In the following images you can see one design that wanted to convey a whimsical and delicate emotion and the other a dynamic and fierce one. Which is conveying which emotion? The next topic we covered was layout & grid. This topic was introduced to us by Michael Fröhlich, current Center Assistant of the CDTM and organizer of the elective. In this module of the elective, we learned how important the layout of a screen is. It provides structure to content, makes screens easier to navigate and improves the understanding of complex information. The grid is the tool that brings order into a layout and there are different types of grid that can be used. There are single column grids, multicolumn grids and modular grids. In modular grids, as the one in the picture below, there are different elements and rules for using it. The grid supports you in creating your design, by making the elements in your screens be aligned and in balance. It is also important to consider that sometimes the grid needs to be broken in order to make an emphasis on a certain element of the screen. How did this course affect me? As I mentioned at the beginning, I had no clue about interface aesthetics when I started the elective and I considered myself to be someone that has little knowledge about design. During the elective I felt quite overwhelmed at some points when I was trying to design a weather app just out of black rectangles. But now, having this theoretical foundation, having applied the rules and methods hands-on on my own designs and having written design critiques for the screens of my peers, my perspective of interface aesthetics has completely changed. I now believe that I can understand the underlying elements that make an interface appealing and compelling. I feel empowered to talk about design and give feedback to screens in a structured way. I would probably still hire a professional designer to design the interfaces of my next unicorn start-up, but for now, I know the foundations, can be part of the design conversation and can start designing my own interfaces. What is the CDTM? The Center for Digital Technology and Management (CDTM) is a joint institution of the two universities in Munich, the Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München (LMU) and the Technische Universität München (TUM), offering the interdisciplinary add-on study program Technology Management. Students from various study backgrounds with creative ideas, great motivation, and an entrepreneurial mindset are offered the tools to put their ideas into practice. Find out more about the CDTM here. Share On Social Media! Related Posts IoT Hardware Prototyping Elective 2021 Effective Organization Building Conscious Leadership & Meditation Recent Posts Archives Categories
Females of impact series: Josephine Kühl Welcome to our Females of Impact Series, where we peek into the exciting lives and journeys of our CDTM Alumnae. Today, we have the pleasure to present our interview with Josephine Kühl. Josephine currently holds a role as Consultant at Bain & Company, where she not only drives impact for Bain’s clients, but also contributes shaping Bain’s own culture. As a result of this effort, she was awarded the Spirit Bainie Award 2020 – a peer-nomination based award to celebrate individuals who stand out in making Bain & Company a great place to work for. Bearing this in mind, we invite you to read her very personal story. A story filled with insights from her journey as well as motivating messages regarding the importance of selfless giving. Interview with Josephine Kühl Can you shortly introduce yourself? My name is Josephine. I work as a Consultant for Bain & Company in Berlin, focusing on our Technology and Cloud Services Practice. I studied Business Administration at the LMU and attended the CDTM as part of the Class Spring 16. Additionally, I spent one semester at Columbia University in New York City. During my studies I gained most practical experience as a working student and intern in Consulting firms in Munich and Shanghai. I would describe myself as someone who most enjoys doing things in company, e.g. hosting dinner nights or playing Squash with friends. If I find time just by myself, Yoga and creative work, such as painting, are my sources to recharge. What is your personal mission? My personal mission is to be generous with my time for others, build meaningful connections and be helpful for those around me. What motivated you to start your career in Consulting? I seeked a job that combined my passion for entrepreneurial thinking, working with motivated people and learning as much as possible. I found all of this in Consulting. Advising business executives and corporations in their decision making on complex problems requires an specific set of skills. It does not involve only strategic thinking, but also consideration of the impact on all individuals involved. I believe this is best achieved with a motivated team, a team that feels passionate about identifying the actual root causes and the best recommendations. Additionally, I wanted to immerse myself in a learning culture. Consulting works with institutionalized feedback systems. It also has a clearly outlined personal development track. An example of this is Bain’s offer to take a sponsored leave for an MBA, PhD or Social Impact Externship after working for two years. What made you choose Bain & Company? Initially, I joined Bain because of the opportunity to work in Consulting alongside my Master. This is possible since we have a pool of working students supporting case teams. Because I was able to experience the Bain culture for several years, I then also realized that Bain was the right place for me to start full time. Already during my time as a working student, many Bainies were committed to see me succeed. I also had colleagues turn to close friends. I was impressed how much time some people invested supporting me. They helped me by providing advice and connecting me with the right people for whatever problem I was contemplating. These included from data requests, full time interview preparation, to gathering the most comprehensive list of must-do’s for my semester in NYC. What I love about Bain is that everyone is encouraged to contribute beyond the case work by taking over responsibility, e.g. for recruiting, training or within our affinity groups, such as our GreenTeam, Social Impact Group, Womxn@Bain or our LGBTQ+ network BGLAD. What projects have you enjoyed the most? Regarding cases at Bain, I particularly enjoyed cases around Tech and Digital topics for which I could build upon my hybrid education of Business Administration and Technology Management. In general, I love projects where I can be entrepreneurial, creative and bring people closer together. For instance, last year, I took on the class captain role for all Associate Consultants in Bain’s Munich office. My responsibilities were advocating on behalf of 40 consultants to our leadership, driving strategic internal initiatives and making sure there are enough possibilities to get to know each other. In a year in which many of us joined Bain only virtually, neither setting a foot in a team room nor the office, it required us to come up with new approaches and alternatives. What are three things in life you are so happy you did? Best decision during studies in hindsight: stretching Master to full three years to fit in my master at LMU, CDTM, semester abroad, working student position and extracurriculars. Most life changing abroad experience: living three months in Shanghai including meeting one of my closest friends Yingxi, who joined the CDTM along with me. Biggest interpersonal learnings: advocating and driving change for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion in professional and semi-professional settings. To what do you attribute your success? On one side, luck and access to opportunities are and were big components of my success. I find it very important to differentiate what success factors you can control and which you cannot. In Germany, I wish we had an even more pronounced discussion about privilege, access to resources, education and money. This is necessary to move further away from the belief that we live in a meritocratic society. Furthermore, the achievements that felt like the biggest accomplishments to me, were never reached by myself alone, but as part of a team or with help and support from others. On the other side, I am entrepreneurial with my own life. I actively pursue opportunities, initiatives and experiences that excite me and that I care about. For this, I find it helpful to think ahead and ask myself what I would want to have achieved, experienced or done looking back in some years. This mid-term view helps me to set priorities. It also pushes you to take action and to be determined even when things do not work out the first time. What did you learn from failing? Of course I made mistakes and have regrets. Reflecting about it helped me to become more self-aware and courageous to take more risks. In times, where one can publicly access many CVs on LinkedIn, it would be great to have a “LinkedIn of Failure” (let’s call it “FailedForward”). Imagine if everyone would list missed opportunities and lessons learnt the hard way. It would show that many are successful not despite, but because of failures. On my profile at “FailedForward”, you would see that I had applied to the CDTM twice. The first time, I did not speak to students to ask about their experience and tips for the process. This was one of those instances that taught me how valuable it is to proactively seek advice. How did you handle adversity? Adversity is one of my biggest teachers about life and its meaning. Crisis, hardship, and looking into fears can provide a lot of answers about priorities and values. It is fundamental to let hardship not turn us bitter, but more compassionate towards others and also ourselves. For me, several things were helpful. First, I try to reflect on what I can learn from the experience, what I can do better or should rethink. But there is a fine line between being too harsh with me or not enough. Thus, I find it very important and helpful to reach out to my support system to share, evaluate and get different perspectives. This taught me to open up more. As I encountered adversity, I learnt that sharing and listening to these experiences can build very meaningful connections. This is a valuable source of learning. In general, there are many visions, dreams and ideas that are worth to be thrived for. Nevertheless, the path towards them means discomfort, set-backs and doubt. When I am convinced the vision or goal is worth it, adversity becomes a source of purpose and encouragement. What is your message to students interested in developing their entrepreneurship projects or aiming for a high impact career? Go for it! Reflect about what de-energizes and energizes you – and do more of the latter. Reach out to and unite with others, assemble your own board of supporters, experts, challengers, mentors and sponsors. Seek broad and diverse inputs, experiences and perspectives. What does the world need more of? Givers. People who provide support and help to others without expecting something in return and who put emphasis on contributing instead of competing – as outlined by one of my favorite authors, psychologist and Wharton Professor Adam Grant in his book “Give & Take: Why Helping Others Drives Our Success”. Where should we follow you (Linked-in, Twitter, IG, etc)? I am happy to connect over LinkedIn. Source of Inspiration Stories like the one from Josephine are invaluable on bringing insights to our own journeys. It is important to become self-aware and remain open to the opportunities and possibilities around us. Specially in times of high uncertainty, like the ones we live right now. Josephine’s story is an example of this. She started where many of us currently are and her story is a source of inspiration for all of us! Thank you Josephine for sharing your story! Share On Social Media! Related Posts Effective Organization Building Holy Cow! The environmental cost of your food choice Conscious Leadership & Meditation Recent Posts Archives Categories
Females of Impact series: CDTM Alumnae changing the world! The greatest pride of the CDTM is to see their community creating impact and fulfilling their goals and plans, on many instances, to an immeasurable success. Their progress is filled with obstacles, perseverance and hard work, and each story is an unique portrait of resiliency and effort from which we can always learn. On this series, we are going to focus on a subgroup of our Awesome community; our female centrelines. We want these stories to inspire others in their respective fields and aspire to pursuit their own dreams and don’t be afraid of aiming high! On our community we have consultants, founders, engineers, scientists, managers and directors, all of them creating impact on their own field. No goal is too big for our community and their stories are examples to replicate. On this first post, we are going to take a small peek at some of the female entrepreneurs on their Start up journeys. There is no specific order and our list is at no extend complete. Our intention is to summarise some of their stories and tell the details of their own experiences, from their biggest challenges, passions, and their advices to all females pursuing their entrepreneurial dreams. Here is a small preview: Here is a small preview: Veronika Schweighart: Veronika is a passionate entrepreneur with international work experience in business development, consulting, marketing and employer branding. She pursuits a mission to tackle challenging problems in order to improve human life. “Nothing is impossible. The word said I’M POSSIBLE.” – Audrey Hepburn. Veronika has co-founded not only one, but two successful startups, being one Nuclino, a personal favourite for knowledge management, and currently Climedo Health. Veronika Riederle: After working as a case team leader at Bain & Company, Veronica co-founded Demodesk in 2017 with another CDTM Alumnus, Alex Popp. Since then, they have been working on their screen sharing and video conferencing platform with integrated real-time sales assistance. Veronika joined Y Combinator with Demodesk and this year they closed an Series A funding raising $8 million. Quite an impressive growth on the last years. Judith Dada: Judith Dada has an impressive curriculum, with companies such as Bain, Holtzbrinck Digital, Facebook and La Famiglia VC, from which she is currently a partner. La Famiglia VC recently announced on August a €50 Million fund to uncover the sleeping giants of B2B tech, joined by CDTM entrepreneurs. Victoria Hauzeneder: Victoria has a very complete start up ecosystem experience. She has been a Venture Analyst at next47, CTO of Blik, Mentor at Techstars, head of Customer Success at Finn.auto and currently as the Chief of Staff at Demodesk. Many young companies and a variety of roles within them has for sure brought a lot unique experiences to Victoria. Josephine Kühl: Josephine has been over the last 5 years working at Bain, starting as a working student and making her way up to Consultant. Consultancy is a highly competitive space and a lot of resilience, patience and hard work is required to build up a successful career within one of the biggest name in the industry. Sarah Fleischer: We have had the pleasure at the center to have Sarah as a mentor and as a speaker. She is currently and adjunct professor at the University of Luxembourg and an economic advisor for the Luxembourg Space Agency, but this is only a small part of her endeavours. For a more in comprehensive introduction to Sarah’s experiences and advices, we recommend you to take a look at her TEDx talk: On our next post, we will present a small interview with one of these entrepreneurs and explore their amazing stories. Follow us and don’t miss our next presentation of the Female entrepreneur series! Special thanks to Katrin Sievert who inspired this series and supported this initiative. Author: Alexis Gamboa. Share On Social Media! Related Posts Effective Organization Building Holy Cow! The environmental cost of your food choice SELF LEADERSHIP BACKBONE AT CDTM WITH bridgingpositions Recent Posts Archives Categories
TREND SEMINAR SPRING 2020: PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION IN THE DIGITAL ERA While sitting here and drinking a cup of coffee, I lean back in my chair and remember the past seven weeks – “Trend Seminar, wow, what a journey”. A big smile appears on my face and a feeling of accomplishment kicks in. As the caffeine starts to rush through my body, thoughts emerge resembling the roller-coaster experience we all have gone through. New people, new challenges, and a pandemic with Covid-19 that completely turned everyone´s world upside down. On the 2nd of March 2020 our class, “Spring 2020”, kicked off its very first day as the new CDTM batch. Ahead of us 26 students were seven weeks of full-time intense Trend Seminar, with a yet unknown project partner in a yet unknown industry. The center assistants, the two Philipps, running this course had remained faithful to the tradition to keep the project partner and industry secret until the first day. No matter how many times we raised our glasses during the kickoff-weekend, their mouth remained shut. Only a little hint was given to us: “It is something that affects all of you”. At least we knew, it would be something that would make our hearts beat faster – the possibility to have an impact. On the day of the revelation, we were baffled. With 700 billion € market size, 4.8 million employees and over 80 million customers only in Germany our industry definitely provided the opportunity to have impact – no doubt. The industry I’m talking about, our Trend Seminar industry, is public administration. But we weren’t just sent out there blind. Our project partner Tech4Germany represented by Anna Hupperth, had been taking on the challenge to digitalize the public administration in Germany for a while. As an initiative under the patronage of the head of Federal Chancellery Prof. Dr. Helge Braun, Tech4Germany recruits young talents from fields of technology, product and design to develop user-centric solutions for federal ministries. After getting to know our project partner we were ready and excited to get started. The game plan was clear. For the first few weeks we were going to tackle an in-depth analysis of major trends in public administration as well as their corresponding drivers. In the second phase, the scenario phase, we were then going to cluster the major drivers to identify the most impactful ones. Extrapolating these would allow us to define a scenario matrix with four different outcomes depicting public administration in 2040. The last phase would be all about ideation and building sustainable business models in the area of public administration. Our class was expecting to spend a good amount of the upcoming 7 weeks within the four walls of the center and thus we quickly made it our second home. Snacks and coffee were organized to keep the energy-level high. The fridge was filled with cold beer and pizza, great after work get-togethers were guaranteed. Soon we would host cooking nights and table soccer sessions. Within a week, however, we were pulled out of this. Not just us, but the whole world. Suddenly, from one day to another Corona was determining our lives. As it forced university institutions to shut-down, we felt like Trend Seminar was on the brink of collapse. I can vividly remember how we gathered our whole class of students and sat together weighing up options. “How will we continue? Will we continue at all? Can we make this work?”. In this moment, we experienced uncertainty in its purest form. Within this situation of reluctance and doubts, however, encouraging voices became louder. We were all at the CDTM to apply digital technologies. We were all here to overcome uncertainty and solve real-world problems. It was clear – Trend Seminar was going to continue and we would make it work. Within a day, slack became our new living room and scribble our new table soccer. While we were moving apart physically, we moved together mentally, bonding through new initiatives such as daily video chat workouts, meditation sessions and remote speed-friending. Trend Seminar continued and we worked on the next phases remotely. Our creativity came to light during the scenario phase, where we had the chance to extrapolate our findings to public administration in 2040. “What does public administration look like in twenty years from today?”. It was also expressed in funny video-conferencing call backgrounds and theme songs from “Who wants to be a Millionaire?” during class votings. During the final phase of Trend Seminar, our class had come up with 150+ business ideas. Five of these ideas were developed in detail over the last two weeks ranging from enabling citizen engagement to providing support for the elderly as well as introducing digital assistance to citizens, democratizing public administration data and driving user-centered development of digital public services. If you are now curious about the specific outcomes of Trend Seminar, then stay tuned. A comprehensive report consolidating all the findings regarding public administration in the digital era will be published soon. Follow us on LinkedIn, Instagram and Facebook to be kept in the loop. Here a glimpse on what Trend Seminar looked like: Post-its and white boards were used to structure our thoughts and the knowledge from numerous insightful expert lectures. To get our head free and relax, we challenged each other on the mostly awesome table soccer. The kitchen was not only used for creative coffee breaks, but also for after work cooking nights and drinks. After we went remote, parties continued in the virtual space with a cleverly devised interactive party map linking different video chats to dance and game rooms. Background music, telephone jokers and a presenter added the right feeling to class votings. Whether it was after an intense remote party or long class discussion session, meditation helped our class to stay focused. Excitement and relief after having our final presentation in front of our project partner. Share On Social Media! Related Posts IoT Hardware Prototyping Elective 2021 eLab in summer term 2021 Effective Organization Building Recent Posts Archives Categories
VC La Famiglia announces €50 million fund to uncover the sleeping giants of B2B tech, joined by CDTM entrepreneurs Berlin, 12th August, 2020: La Famiglia – the VC backed by some of the world’s most successful entrepreneurs, family businesses and industry leaders – has announced a €50 million fund to uncover the next-generation of B2B giants. Next to established industry founders, a group of entrepreneurs and CDTM alumni, including Ignaz Forstmeier, Mike Wax, Joshua Cornelius, Andreas Franz, Sebastian Schuon, Anselm Bauer, Stefan Rothlehner, Matthias Möller and Benjamin Günther have also invested into the new fund and support La Famiglia in sourcing the best opportunities the European market has to offer. La Famiglia’s USP lies in its unmatched strength of uniting a multi-generational and multi-sectoral base of entrepreneurs that support each other through shared learnings and exclusive insights, thereby circumventing common entrepreneurial pitfalls on their way to product-market fit. Its LP base includes established industry giants such as the Mittal, Pictet, Oetker, Hymer and Swarovski families, the industry leaders Voith and Franke, as well as the owning families behind conglomerates such as Hapag Lloyd, Solvay, Adidas, and Valentino, alongside new economy leaders Niklas Zennström (Skype, Atomico), Zoopla’s Alex Chesterman and Personio’s Hanno Renner. Led by Dr. Jeannette zu Fürstenberg alongside partner Judith Dada, the pair is on a mission to drive the integration of technology into every sector of the economy by building a home for entrepreneurs and leaders that drive the next wave of industry-transforming companies. Their vision for La Famiglia is to foster cooperation between young digital disruptors and leading companies by serving as a trusted access platform and advisor for existing entrepreneurs and business leaders to create mutually beneficial relationships. La Famiglia’s value add is also echoed by founders who have worked with them. “I think Jeannette and Judith have established a unique value proposition by combining an exceptional network within the old and new economy, with a deep understanding of new trends and technologies. Besides, working with them has always been a lot of fun due to their amazing personalities” says Hanno Renner, Co-Founder and CEO of Personio. La Famiglia’s team already features two CDTM alumni. Judith Dada studied at CDTM in their spring 2014 cohort. Judith describes her decision to study at CDTM as “one of the best and most significant decisions of my life. Partnering with so many talented founders for our second fund is a great continuation of the shared work and support we offered one another so far.” Viet Le, who is part of La Famiglia’s investment team and looks after machine learning focused investments, belongs to the fall class of 2016. In the past, La Famiglia has invested into a range of companies founded by CDTM alumni, including Luminovo, Forto and Personio. As part of the investment in La Famiglia, the CDTM alumni have pledged to give 10% of their fund returns back to CDTM, thereby helping to foster its future educational and entrepreneurial goals and supporting the next generation of innovators and builders to pursue ambitious goals. La Famiglia looks forward to carrying forward the torch of CDTM’s ambitious and interdisciplinary spirit by working with CDTM alumni on funding breakout opportunities. ————————————————- CDTM Editorial team with support from Judith Dada Share On Social Media! Related Posts IoT Hardware Prototyping Elective 2021 eLab in summer term 2021 Effective Organization Building Recent Posts Archives Categories
Center Stories Organizing the Quantitative Empirical Data Analysis Elective Reading this, you probably know that the CDTM is a student-run organization. As such it heavily depends on Centerlings to create educational offerings within the center. Recently, we (that is Laura Steinke from class Fall 2019 and Max Mynter from class Spring 2019) went through this experience and organized [...] Collaboration for Sustainability Our generation is facing unprecedented challenges with the tremendous changes in our personal and professional lives. In this VUCA (volatile, uncertain, complex and ambiguous) world, we need more collaboration across lines because none of us will be able solve the problems alone. This is especially true when it comes [...] Self Leadership Backbone at CDTM with Bridgingpositions We, as Centerlings, are invariably occupied and handling countably many responsibilities at once. Studies, projects, work, and our personal life ask for our attention every day. We are constantly running from one appointment to the next, while our daily routine leaves no space to contemplate whether our endeavors will [...] Social Health Entrepreneurship Elective What is Social Entrepreneurship? Social Entrepreneurship has become increasingly popular during the last few years with over half of the social enterprises in the US founded in 2006 or later.[1] Also, the CDTM is focusing more and more on the social aspects of businesses and how to have a [...] Practicing Mindfulness at CDTM with mynd:way We are living in constant movement. At the Center everyone is always on the go. Constantly moving. Balancing regular studies with Center projects and personal lifes. Everyone is always connected. Sending emails, having calls, answering texts… And often it feels like we forget to just… breathe… On Thursday, Martina [...] Hello World of Smart Contracts – The Blockchain Elective There's nothing that's not a topic at the Center for Digital Technology and Management (CDTM). We have courses where students program smart drones, others where they learn to master the art of meditation and more where they build "food computers" that autonomously grow plants using robotic systems. But one [...] Trend Seminar: Parenttech And The Future of Parenting In the past seven weeks, 25 newly appointed CDTM students engaged in intensive trend research. We sought to find out what parenting will look like in the future and how technology can act as an enabler in the process. During the first course of our CDTM journey, the Trend [...] New Product Development For Students – Summer ’19 You want to know how you can learn new product development and digital prototyping in three months or less? The simple answer is: join the CDTM. Because this is exactly what we did in the second core course of the add-on study program Technology Management offered by the Center For Digital [...] ELab Project with Ebenbuild – Entrepreneurship for Students One of the three main courses at CDTM is the Entrepreneurship Laboratory (eLab). The eLab is a project-based course of twelve weeks focusing on entrepreneurship for students. The student teams answer strategic business questions ranging from market entry strategy to a new pricing strategy for a SaaS product. To [...] Getting To Know Social Entrepreneurship in Berlin In 2018, the federal government has found that around 7.8 million people in Germany are severely disabled [1]. Were you aware that these people face enormous problems in their everyday lives and often feel excluded from society when they cannot access the same places that you go to every [...]
Our Vision: “Empowering CDTM to contribute to limiting climate catastrophe” “Empowering CDTM to contribute to limiting climate catastrophe” “Empowering CDTM to contribute to limiting climate catastrophe” “Empowering CDTM to contribute to limiting climate catastrophe” Our goals & squads Operations Operations Become a leading role model for sustainable Operations Education Education Make Sustainability part of CDTMs DNA and Education Individuals Individuals Foster climate actions and behavioural change of Individuals Network Network Help sustainable organizations with our Network of exchange Our goals & squads Operations Operations Become a leading role model for sustainable Operations Education Education Make Sustainability part of CDTMs DNA and Education Individuals Individuals Foster climate actions and behavioural change of Individuals Network Network Help sustainable organizations with our Network of exchange Who are we? In short, we are Centerlings passionate about Climate Action. Because we were tired of just reading about climate change, we set out to do something against it. Together we hope to contribute to limiting the climate catastrophe and have some fun doing so! The CDTM Climate Club has its origins in the Book Club. After reading “The Uninhabitable Earth – Life after Warming” by David Wallace-Wells back in 2018, we saw it as our responsibility to actively shape our future ourselves. The Climate Club was founded. Since then we gained in members and traction. And the organizational structure developed along with it. We split into Squads aligned along our goals and defined measurable key points to check that we are actually achieving them. What are we up to? Find here a nice overview of some of our active projects. If you are a Centerling feel free to check out the full list of current and past projects on the CDTM Nuclino Workspace. Otherwise always feel free to contact us (see below)! Taskforces are an essential part of CDTM organizational structure. So let’s incorporate an aspect of sustainability in some of them. We are gathering some interesting sustainability related content for centerlings and the community. And spread via the CDTM Website and social media. Together with HV, Plug&Play, Acton and Ananda we are excited to create a market map of sustainable startups in Europe. Stay tuned! Taskforces are an essential part of CDTM organizational structure. So let’s incorporate an aspect of sustainability in some of them. We are gathering some interesting sustainability related content for centerlings and the community. And spread via the CDTM Website and social media. Together with HV, Plug&Play, Acton and Ananda we are excited to create a market map of sustainable startups in Europe. Stay tuned! Interested? Interested? We are more than happy to chat! Always feel free, to just drop us a message directly! For a more official vibe you can also write to: climateclub@cdtm.de Also if you are already a Centerling join the #climate-club slack channel! And join our next big monthly Climate Club meeting! Interested? Interested? We are more than happy to chat! Always feel free, to just drop us a message directly! For a more official vibe you can also write to: climateclub@cdtm.de Also if you are already a Centerling join the #climate-club slack channel! And join our next big monthly Climate Club meeting! Blogposts on Sustainability Blogposts on Sustainability Holy Cow! The environmental cost of your food choice Does the food I eat impact climate change? Yes. [...] Recycling – 5 things you should know about your waste Recycling – 5 things you should know about your [...] Sustainability Landscape 2021 CDTM empowers the innovators of tomorrow to solve pressing [...] Entrepreneurship to counteract waste through to-go food for sustainable development Due to the pandemic, restaurants are forced to shut [...] Collaboration for Sustainability Our generation is facing unprecedented challenges with the tremendous [...] Our Student Sustainability Initiative CDTM reshaped the way I think about sustainability – [...] CDTM Climate Club The Story Behind the Climate Club Being a “Centerling” [...]
Holy Cow! The environmental cost of your food choice Does the food I eat impact climate change? Yes. About 26% of all the planet-warming greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are coming from what we eat on a daily basis. This number is almost two times greater than the fossil fuels burned for all the cars, trains, planes, and ships on the planet. To have a better sense of gas sources, think not only about the meal you ate today, but the food system as a whole: To check out how does your diet contribute to climate change, try out these quizzes: What types of food have the largest impact on global warming? Beef, lamb and dairy. Holy cow! Overall, animal-based products have as much as 10 to 60 times higher carbon footprint, than plant-based (and also protein-rich!). For example, producing a 1 kilogram of beef emits 60 kilograms of GHG (CO2-equivalents), while peas leave just 1 kilogram. You may say that the amount of protein per 100g of product you will get when eating meat is not comparable to a plant based diet. Let’s do some back-of-the-envelope calculations. It is recommended to eat 0,8 g of protein per kilogram of your body weight. For the sake of simplicity, let’s take 50g of protein per day, to get which the average GHG impact (in kilograms of CO2) is the following: Source: https://science.sciencemag.org/content/360/6392/987 Numbers are approximate. Emissions greatly depend on a country of production and a type of product. More comprehensive distributions of environmental impacts by product can be found here (Fig.S3.) Clearly, plant-based products won the battle while fighting for climate change. You might ask: where exactly these numbers are coming from? And how does our food contribute to global warming? There are many ways. When we are only accounting for the GHG emissions from processing, packaging, transporting, and selling, the difference in the distribution across products is not that great. However, the real difference comes from farming processes and land-use change. One example could be: cows and sheep can digest grass that most animals cannot eat. To do so, they release the byproduct called methane – one of the GHGs and huge contributors to climate change. FYVP, if you’ve never seen how animals release methane…just search on YouTube “Funny Burping Animals Video”. Another example is excessive deforestation driven by worldwide extreme demand for meat. When forests are cleared, the carbon stored in these forests is released into the atmosphere, and consequently heating the planet. Is there a simple food choice I can make that would reduce my climate footprint? “How often do you eat lobster? That’s how often you should eat beef, if you eat it at all!” (#holdthebeef) If you aim for efficiency, then reducing red meat and dairy consumption, foods with the highest carbon footprint, will have the biggest impact on production and GHG emissions through less demand. There are many climate-friendly plant-based substitutes, which provide you with high quality of proteins. This includes tofu, lentils, chickpeas, beans, buckwheat, nuts, and much more! As viable tech solutions are on the rise, more and more startups are providing meat climate-friendly meat and dairy substitutes. Check out some of them below. Companies and startups to look at: Two of the best-funded companies in the lab-grown meat market are based in the Netherlands: This post was written by the CDTM Climate Club which is a student initiative to foster sustainable development in the CDTM Ecosystem. By connecting, educating, and empowering the innovators of tomorrow at the CDTM, we want encourage sustainability through the CDTM Climate Club to be part of the future. A great and sustainable future. For any feedback or input reach out to us via climateclub@cdtm.de. What is the CDTM? The Center for Digital Technology and Management (CDTM) is a joint institution of the two universities in Munich, the Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München (LMU) and the Technische Universität München (TUM), offering the interdisciplinary add-on study program Technology Management. Students from various study backgrounds with creative ideas, great motivation, and an entrepreneurial mindset are offered the tools to put their ideas into practice. Find out more about the CDTM here. Share On Social Media! Related Posts IoT Hardware Prototyping Elective 2021 eLab in summer term 2021 Effective Organization Building Recent Posts Archives Categories
Recycling – 5 things you should know about your waste Recycling – 5 things you should know about your waste In recent years, many of us have become more conscious of our purchasing decisions. We started carefully considering the details of the products we buy and we are often happy to pay double the price if a tag says sugarfree, organic, fairtrade, vegan, without palmoil, or ideally all at once. However, while we are so aware of our buying decisions that we sometimes even call shopping “voting with our money”, most of us do not know where our leftovers go once we used these products. In 2019, 38mio tons of residual waste were produced in Germany. This gives us about half a ton of waste per person (!) per year. Imagine this amount of waste in one room – not much space left. Although in Germany about 70% of trash is being recycled, small mistakes and ignorance lead to waste being burned or dumped rather than recycled. This post is to help us get a grasp of the admittedly complex topic of recycling and how we can assure – with only little adjustments – that our waste does not end up in a landfill. In the end, you will find a list of startups tackling this problem, but first let us unravel some of the most common misconceptions around recycling: Although much innovation is happening in this space, compostable materials take much longer than organic waste to be decomposed. While for example a compostable plastic bag takes 12 weeks to dissolve into small pieces and six months for about 90% of it to disappear, organic waste is only stored for about 4-5 weeks to turn into humus. Additionally, compostable plastic does not turn into valuable humus, but only dissolves into CO2 and water. Hence, the Federal Environmental Agency recommends to put them into normal residual waste instead. The importance of recycling is not a niche topic anymore, most of us have seen emotional pictures of turtles and fish dying from plastics dumped in the ocean. This is why an increasing amount of brands are switching to seemingly eco-friendly paper materials. The problem: Many of them are laminated with plastics, a material-mix that creates a HUGE problem for recycling. First, only a very limited amount of machines can actually handle this kind of waste and second, people are made to believe the material belongs into paper waste, which it does not! For example, frozen pizza packaging, baking paper, wrapping paper and receipts belong into residual waste rather than paper waste. Generally, try to avoid shiny paper packaging and if you have to dispose of it, put it into residual rather than paper waste. Since our waste is not directly burned or recycled anyways, but gets sorted first, it is a huge improvement if you separate your waste, even if you then throw it all into the same bag. For example, if you separate the (laminated) paper from your yoghurt cup, they can both be recycled, otherwise they both end up being burned. Would you have known that producing a paper bag actually emits more CO2 than plastic bags? Looking at the bag´s whole lifecycle, you have to use a paper bag 3x, cotton bags even 131x for them to have lower global warming potential than single-use plastic bags. The same holds true for packaging. Most food cannot be safely stored in non-plastic packaging, it would lead to much more food waste, an even bigger problem for climate change. It is not about completely telling off plastics as “bad”, it is about utilizing it when reasonable and reusing it whenever possible! Concluding, our priority should always be to reduce our waste before thinking about recycling. We have seen that recycling is far from perfect. So, let us try to reuse the things we need and bring our own containers whenever possible. Selection of Consumer Startups tackling waste reduction and fostering reuse: Have you tried any of the listed solutions? What was your experience? Do you have any other ideas on how to reduce waste or know any other solutions? This post was written by the CDTM Climate Club which is a student initiative to foster sustainable development in the CDTM Ecosystem. By connecting, educating, and empowering the innovators of tomorrow at the CDTM, we want encourage sustainability through the CDTM Climate Club to be part of the future. A great and sustainable future. For any feedback or input reach out to us via climateclub@cdtm.de. What is the CDTM? The Center for Digital Technology and Management (CDTM) is a joint institution of the two universities in Munich, the Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München (LMU) and the Technische Universität München (TUM), offering the interdisciplinary add-on study program Technology Management. Students from various study backgrounds with creative ideas, great motivation, and an entrepreneurial mindset are offered the tools to put their ideas into practice. Find out more about the CDTM here. Sources: Statista, https://de.statista.com/themen/1549/recycling/#:~:text=Laut%20dem%20Statistischen%20Bundesamt%20erwirtschaftete,die%20Recyclingbranche%20rund%2034.000%20Personen. Umweltbundesamt, https://www.umweltbundesamt.de/themen/tueten-aus-bioplastik-sind-keine-alternative Geo, https://www.geo.de/natur/nachhaltigkeit/19738-rtkl-bio-plastik-kompostierbare-plastiktueten-warum-die-meisten-menschen Deutsche Umwelthilfe, https://www.duh.de/aktuell/nachrichten/aktuelle-meldung/recycling-leichtgemacht-6-tipps-und-tricks-zur-muelltrennung/ Environment Agency, https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/291023/scho0711buan-e-e.pdf Utopia, https://utopia.de/ratgeber/5-unnoetige-muellfehler-und-wie-du-es-richtig-machst/, https://utopia.de/ratgeber/muelltrennung-recycling/ United States Environmental Protection Agency, https://www.epa.gov/recycle/how-do-i-recycle-common-recyclables Share On Social Media! Related Posts Holy Cow! The environmental cost of your food choice Sustainability Landscape 2021 WE RUN FOR BEIRUT Recent Posts Archives Categories
Entrepreneurship to counteract waste through to-go food for sustainable development Due to the pandemic, restaurants are forced to shut down their service. Many of them now sell their dishes as take-away or provide the possibility of delivery to keep up their sales. However, this means that the food and drinks need to be packaged. The to-go packaging waste amounts to around 356 thousand tons in Germany yearly. Each German citizen produces more than 200 kg of packaging waste per year. Every hour around 140.000 to-go cups are used in Germany. To-go cups alone make up around 55 thousand tons of waste in Germany. Due to the pandemic, the packaging waste of private households has increased by around 10% since March. Most of the cups are made from cardboard including a plastic coating, around one third is completely made from plastic. As they are usually thrown directly into the next rubbish bin, the raw materials in the cup, such as wood and crude oil, are thus lost forever after only a short period of use. Moreover, half a liter of water is needed to produce the paper for one cup which is more than the cup can take as drink. The problem is that the material mix of to-go packaging is hard to recycle. Due to the plastic coating, it doesn’t soak up liquids and thus the paper fibres to not fully dissolve. Thus, it can only be recycled partly. Even worse, if one-time usage packaging is not thrown into the correct rubbish bin (gelber Sack), they remain in our environment for many decades like plastic bags. As a consequence, the government takes action: they are prohibiting one-time usage plastics from July 2021. However, we can start already now by changing to reusable solutions if we take food or drinks to go. There are many companies evolving to provide an alternative for the ecologically questionable current solution. We want to encourage you to take action yourself, as every buying decision represents a vote for sustainable solutions. If you know how, it is actually quite easy to improve your personal impact. To do so, check out companies like Recup/Rebowl Relevo, or Vytal. By collaborating with different restaurants, they are providing reusable packaging for your food and drinks. The food boxes are better for our environment in contrast to one-time packaging after a usage of 10 times, so make sure to bring them back. Reusable box providers state that the return rate is 98%, which is higher than for bottles. Usually there is another trick: Ask your favorite restaurant if you can bring your own cup or box when you pick up your food. Some might refuse it due to COVID-19 – but some are super happy about that. Let’s take a small new year challenge and try to avoid to-go waste for the next month! Comment below your tips & tricks and how this works for you! Do you have any other ideas on how to fight packaging waste or know any other solutions? We consider new ventures for counteracting the current challenges of our society and environment as essential for a sustainable development. Only with new innovations we can defy these social and environmental challenges of our society. By connecting, educating, and empowering the innovators of tomorrow at the CDTM, we want encourage sustainability through the CDTM Climate Club to be part of the future. A great and sustainable future. This post was written by the CDTM Climate Club which is a student initiative to foster sustainable development in the CDTM Ecosystem. For any feedback or input reach out to us via climateclub@cdtm.de. Sources: Share On Social Media! Related Posts Holy Cow! The environmental cost of your food choice Recycling – 5 things you should know about your waste Sustainability Landscape 2021 Recent Posts Archives Categories
Collaboration for Sustainability Our generation is facing unprecedented challenges with the tremendous changes in our personal and professional lives. In this VUCA (volatile, uncertain, complex and ambiguous) world, we need more collaboration across lines because none of us will be able solve the problems alone. This is especially true when it comes to climate change and regenerating our economy and society into long-term sustainable systems. At the Center, we have many initiatives, projects, and events where we share our experiences. However, we have a lot to learn from others outside of the CDTM. That is why the CDTM Climate Club in 2019 initiated a collaboration with 180 Degrees Consulting, Manage&More, and Enactus on the topic of sustainability. Representatives from each of the student organisations have come together and are working to offer workshops, lectures and networking between the students. We are all passionate about the topic and have experiences from our projects, so why not join forces and learn from each other? What is the CDTM Climate Club? A student initiative with the mission to empower CDTM to contribute to limiting climate catastrophe. We have set ourselves 3 targets for 2020 to systematically change the CDTM to become a forerunner in climate action. With more than 110 members in our slack channel we share resources&tips, and connect engaged centerlings. Read more about how the Climate Club started here. In December 2019, we organised our first workshop with the sustainability consultancy Systemiq on “System Change Towards a Circular Economy”. Almost 50 people participated and the workshop was well received. The collaboration continued this semester and we invited the Social Entrepreneurship Academy (SEA) to host a virtual workshop on “Make a difference, but do it right! Creating and understanding impact”. This time we also spent more time on connecting the students and sharing our experiences in breakout sessions. We are already looking forward to our next collaboration events that we are planning, hopefully also meeting each other in person. Stay tuned! The problems that we are facing are too large for us to solve by ourselves, and this collaboration is just a step in the right direction. If you have any ideas, feedback or would like to partner with us, please reach out to us on climateclub@cdtm.de. ————————————————- Gyri Reiersen (Spring 2019) and Carla Pregel Hoderlein (Spring 2019) on behalf of the CDTM Climate Club Share On Social Media! Related Posts IoT Hardware Prototyping Elective 2021 eLab in summer term 2021 Effective Organization Building Recent Posts Archives Categories
Our Student Sustainability Initiative CDTM reshaped the way I think about sustainability – through our sustainability initiative In our own student sustainability initiative, my class (Spring 2019) has taken responsibility and made the Center life more sustainable. It span across all courses, and for me, my CDTM journey has reshaped the way I think about sustainability. It also affected how I want to integrate sustainability in my future life choices. But let’s start where it all began. I must say, that our class (Spring 2019) encountered very special circumstances that contributed to the existence of our student sustainability initiative. It all started with the Trend Seminar. Before the topic of the Trend Seminar was revealed to us, I remember thinking “it has to be something that is being disrupted by technology – maybe aviation, mobility…?” But as I was shown, my thoughts were too basic. “The data-driven future of dairy” – that was our topic. My first thoughts were “Are you serious?! How boring is that?!” But I was proven wrong. Sustainability starts there, where you least expect it – how our student sustainability initiative started. One thing, that CDTM is doing well, is picking an industry which you would never think of. And that is mostly, because the technological disruption, that everyone talks about, didn’t happen yet, or is just about to happen. I learned that those areas are the most interesting to work on. Because there is so much potential. When it comes to the future of dairy, we were confronted a lot with the topic of sustainability. Given the current attention of climate change, we got to know the whole story of dairy farming. And for some of us, it was eye-opening. We realized how much action is needed in this industry. And finally, we saw how much impact technology can have if it’s used to promote sustainability in the food system. At the end of the Trend Seminar, many of our ideas were developed with attention to making agriculture more sustainable. Integrating sustainable habits into our daily routines. During the Trend Seminar, a lot of us tried to rethink our lifestyles. When it comes to food consumption, we often discussed and tried to figure out how we can replace the meat and dairy that we consume. We tried out new dairy substitutes, challenged ourselves to eat more vegetarian or even vegan, and thought about habits that produce less waste. Did you know, that in most restaurants you can bring your own take-out box? We even implemented it for us when going to eat at a kebab/falafel place around the corner. We called it our own student sustainability initiative. Small actions, step by step, transformed into real habit changes. The Trend Seminar was just the beginning for the student sustainability initiative. After the Trend Seminar, the Managing Product Development Course was the next one in our schedule. I was very happy to continue the next CDTM climate action initiative by working on a project together with KPMG Sustainability Services. Back then, our problem statement was very generic. The goal was to design a digital solution to nudge end-consumers towards more environmentally friendly behavior using data-driven insights and gamification elements. And everything was open to us. That means we had to find the “real problem” and the fitting solution ourselves. During the 3 months of this course, my team was very happy to deep-dive into the topic of climate change and sustainability. We learned that sustainability is a very complex construct that has to meet a variety of requirements. We have started a student sustainability initiative at CDTM and tried to help our friends to rethink their habits, with small actions. But how can we enable end-consumers to be more sustainable? Consumer demand drives sustainability initiatives. Many people asked us “Why do you even want to approach end-consumers? It’s the producers that are responsible for all the pollution that we face!” And of course, they were right. But the producers represent the supply. And what drives the supply? Right – demand. End-consumers. Some would say that we talk about different dimensions here. And those people would also be right. But what our team wanted to achieve, was a change of perspective. We wanted to develop a solution that shows people that everyone can contribute to climate action. With every single choice we make. This is why we started to tackle the complex mind of the end-consumer. We wanted to know which areas have the highest willingness to change. Is it mobility? Is it private households? Or food consumption? Which areas can cause the most positive impact when people actually change their behavior? We started an online survey in which over 300(!) people participated, verified our results in personal interviews and focus groups. We followed up with scientific research to back everything up and came up with one area of climate action, with which everyone could start with. Food consumption. Food contributes over one third to our personal carbon footprint per year. And research confirms that by making more conscious and environmentally friendly food choices, we can reduce our food-related carbon footprint by up to 50% per year. How can we reduce our food-related carbon footprint? Given this problem statement, we started to develop our first end-consumer application called “SVYVE”. Eventually, with a pinch of hope, we have turned the serious topic of climate change into something actionable. How can the purchase of, for example, one single apple make a difference in climate change? By adding all purchases around the globe up. This is what we aimed for. Many of us, including me, have the same thoughts when going food shopping: “Does choosing this product or that product really make a difference? I don’t even know if this choice contributes something positive to the environment – there is no transparency.” Students fighting climate change with SVYVE. With SVYVE, we wanted to show that with every single choice we all can make a difference. We wanted to give end-consumers the choice to make informed buying decisions in the supermarket by finally being able to access product life cycle emissions. Through scanning desired products and, eventually, choosing the most environmentally friendly product, a virtual tree can be grown and planted in a community. Those, users can either join or create themselves. The virtual trees would then be translated into planting real trees in cooperation with NGO’s. Consumers with an interest in environmental consciousness could use SVYVE to not only reduce their carbon footprint by comparing different options in the supermarket and adding up their carbon-saving choices. Additionally, consumers would be rewarded for sharing their data. They have an interest in sharing their scanned and chosen products to push suppliers and retailers to meet their sustainability needs. On the other hand, food-related businesses have an interest in the scanned product data to optimize their assortment, and thus production cycles, which was the basis for our business model. Our student sustainability initiative at the Product Design Fair As the first action of SVYVE, we aimed for our first own climate action during the final presentation, the Product Design Fair. We asked the audience if they wanted to participate in our initiative to offset the yearly carbon emissions of one person. We opened up an online money pool to collect donations to plant trees. On tree equaled 1€ which would be donated to an organization called “plant-for-the-planet”. Within one evening only, we collected 610€, which equals to the carbon emissions of a German citizen in half a year. Of course, real climate action requires a lot more, but we aimed to show that every single action can contribute to a sustainable future. Even if it’s about donating 1€ for one tree. We hereby want to thank the CDTM Community and everyone who donated money this evening, and especially all those who attached motivating messages to their donations. THANK YOU! All donations are now transferred to plant-for-the-planet, and you can even track the tree-planting progress of this organization online here. We have so much talent in Munich – why waste all of it to work for a car manufacturer?! Looking back, I always have to think about one statement a fellow CDTM student told me. “We need more student sustainability initiative. We have so much talent in Munich – why waste all of it to work for a car manufacturer?!” My time at CDTM showed me that there is so much potential to use technology to contribute to a sustainable future. I would like to motivate all those who read this to rethink how to reshape the world that we live in and use our knowledge and talent that we acquire at university or our workplace. Always think about one of our CDTM core values: “We change & take responsibility: We are hands-on and eager to learn. We aspire to play an active role in a changing environment. We accept responsibility for ourselves, our actions, and the world around us.” Join a student sustainability initiative – and contribute to your climate action But not only your choice but also your voice can make a difference, too. You may have heard, that in connection to #fridaysforfuture a global climate strike is coming up, happening in the timeframe of 20th – 27th September. In Munich, a global climate strike demonstration is happening on Sept 20th, at noon at Königsplatz, perfect to join during your lunch break. Besides the demonstration, you can also call for climate action by e.g. organizing a training day at your workplace to educate your co-workers about climate crisis and call for more sustainability initiatives. If you are interested in how CDTM promotes climate action, you can join the CDTM Climate Club (more info here). No matter if it’s related to your food choice, your travel, your free time, or even your job. Every choice makes a difference. Klaudia Guzij (Spring 2019) & Team SVYVE (Carla Pegel-Hoderlein, Jana Petry, Katharina Brenner, Christian Spier) _______________________________________________________________________________________________ Lastly, how can you also get to know an entire industry in 7 weeks? Do you also want to take part in the Trend Seminar, or other courses at CDTM? HOW CAN I PARTICIPATE IN OTHER CDTM COURSES? Become a CDTM student! Find out more about our Honours degree in Technology Management, and apply! :https://www.cdtm.de/study/ Share On Social Media! Related Posts IoT Hardware Prototyping Elective 2021 eLab in summer term 2021 Effective Organization Building Recent Posts Archives Categories
CDTM Climate Club The Story Behind the Climate Club Being a “Centerling” is not only about participating in the program as a student and coming together biannually at the Christmas party and the Homecoming weekend. The term also encompasses a deeper meaning, which is reflected in our core values. Everything in and around the Center is being run by students – be it the Honours degree students or PhD Candidates – and alumni. Accordingly, one of our core values states “We change and take responsibility”. The CDTM would not be as great as it is today, had us Centerlings not taken responsibility and changed things. This April, during the meeting of our Book Club – another great initiative by Centerlings – we discussed the book “The Uninhabitable Earth – Life after Warming” by David Wallace-Wells, which basically makes the 2018 report by the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) accessible to a mainstream audience. Having read the book and feeling the urgency of the issue at hand, we decided that it is time for us to take responsibility for the changing world around us. This lead to the founding of the Climate Club. What is the Climate Club and what do you do? Having created the initiative, we reached out to all of the members of our great community in a call to arms. The aim was to attract everyone capable to help us turn the initiative into real action. In the first of a series of biweekly meetings, Centerlings ranging from the classes of 2009 to 2019 gathered around the issue to define the purpose and goals of the club. All of us wanted to avoid being a discussion circle of like-minded members of a social bubble and focus on projects that have an impact beyond the individual actions of the members of the club. Since the founding, we’ve grown from 3 to 45 members (counting all the members of our slack channel), gathered together 6 times and started working on the following projects: How can you get involved? Climate action needs everyone’s attention and commitment. If you have the ability, join our next meeting on the 1st of July at 8 PM, join our slack channel #climate-club or drop us a line with your ideas, proposals or recommendations at climateclub@cdtm.de. Share On Social Media! Related Posts Effective Organization Building Holy Cow! The environmental cost of your food choice SELF LEADERSHIP BACKBONE AT CDTM WITH bridgingpositions Recent Posts Archives Categories
JOIN US! INTERESTED IN JOINING THE CDTM? Apply to the interdisciplinary add-on study program “Technology Management” to be one of the new students starting next semester. We are curious and happy to meet you and to maybe soon welcome you as a new member of CDTM. Find all the application requirements below. HOW TO APPLY HOW TO APPLY ADMISSION Every semester, approximately 25 students start their studies in „Technology Management“ at CDTM. All students go through a rigorous selection process consisting of an online written application and a personal interview. The two-stage interview process guarantees a high level of qualification of the students admitted to the program. DOCUMENTS During the application you will need the following: Before you start your application, please ensure you meet the formal requirements. DEADLINES Apply until May 30th 23:59 CET (fall term) for an intake in August and by November 30th 23:59 CET (spring term) for an intake in the following February. Applications open May 1st for the intake in August and November 1st for the intake in the following February. The upcoming Trend Seminar for the Class of Fall 2021 starts August 10th. More information can be found in our FAQs (“Program Structure”). Please submit your application via the online application system. Information events take place in November and May of every year. OPEN QUESTIONS? OPEN QUESTIONS? You are wondering how you can combine your studies with our Honors Degree in Technology Management? You have questions about the application process? You would like to meet current students and find out what it is like to study at the CDTM? Get to know us at our upcoming events or follow us on our social media channels to stay up to date! START TODAY! For your application please walk through the CDTM online application system and register as a new user.
TALENTS AT CDTM Students projects in the context of digital innovation We believe the best way to get to know one another is through work on innovative challenges. Every semester 10-15 industry partners are closely collaborating with our students on cutting-edge challenges as part of our innovation formats and convince one another with their know-how, philosophy and engagement. Find out more about our innovation formats. Get exposure within the CDTM community You would like to increase your presence at the CDTM and get in closer contact with our students and alumni? We offer you the following services to present your company or organization within the CDTM community and beyond: Please get in touch with us to get an individualized offers that suit your needs. Funding of PhD Positions PhD candidates conduct research as part of their dissertation project and are supervised by excellent CDTM Board Professors at either LMU or TUM. If you are interested in a comprehensive and holistic scientific overview of a topic of high relevance for your organization and industry funding a PhD position might be an interesting opportunity for you. Contact Us Carla Pregel Hoderlein Contact Us Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Subject Your Message
SHARE YOUR EXPERTISE Domain experts within the CDTM curriculum We believe that in an innovation context, knowledge shared by domain experts trumps the theoretical studying of textbooks. Thus, we invite domain experts to spread their insights to the next generation of innovators. For our course formats we are continuously looking for experts in the following fields: Speakers for CDTM Future Leadership Series The CDTM Future Leadership Series (FLS) is a speaker series about leadership topics. At each FLS, one highly successful leader from business, politics or society provides unique insights into their career, leadership philosophy in an intimate fireside chat. Past speakers include Roman Herzog (Former President of Germany), Jeff Burton (Co-Founder Electronic Arts), Joe Kaeser (CEO Siemens), Philipp Rösler (Managing Director of World Economic Forum) and many more. Do you know inspiring leaders that would like to share their story in a CDTM Future Leadership event? Let’s talk! Speakers for CDTM Inspire&Dine The CDTM Inspire&Dine is an open TED-talk like evening with three to four inspiring speakers and 300+ ambitious students and young professionals. Speakers come from diverse fields and share a passion for technology, innovation, entrepreneurship and extraordinary stories. In the past, we have hosted professional violinists, business leaders, neuroscientists and AI-experts, who inspired the audience with their talks. Do you know inspiring personalities or would like to share your story in one of the next CDTM Inspire&Dine events? Let’s talk! Upcoming Inspire&Dine Events Contact Us Carla Pregel Hoderlein Contact Us Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Subject Your Message
YOUR WAY TO CDTM Visitor Address Center for Digital Technology and Management Marsstr. 20-22 80335 Munich, Germany CDTM is located on the ground floor. PDF Directions – How to find us POSTAL ADDRESS Center for Digital Technology and Management Arcisstr. 21 80333 Munich, Germany Communication Phone: +49 89 289 – 28567 Fax: +49 89 289 – 28459 info@cdtm.de
Mostly Awesome – a podcast by cdtm New Episodes every 2nd Wednesday What is it about? Mostly Awesome is a podcast about the personal journeys of innovators. We talk to the doers and thinkers of our time to understand what motivates them and why they do what they do. Together we reflect upon their decisions, wins and setbacks. Meet our inspiring yet relatable guest from the world of entrepreneurship and technology to find out what may help you to become an innovator of tomorrow! Excited? Check it out! Mostly Awesome is available everywhere where podcasts are. So simply tune in and have a listen! Or just click on the icon of your favorite service to be taken there directly! LATEST Episodes Episode 19 Caroline Weimann is the founder and co-director of JoinPolitics. JoinPolitics aims to open unusual routes into politics by by supporting and giving seed capital to political talent and applying the disruptive and innovative nature of entrepreneurship to politics. Caroline holds a Master’s degree in International Studies from SOAS - University of London and an Executive MPA from the Hertie School of Governance. Previously, she worked on building social ventures at Siemens Stiftung, at the EU Commission, in NGO consulting at actori and in impact investing at Ananda Impact Ventures. In the first block, Caroline speaks about her personal journey towards politics. Caroline explains the differences between social entrepreneurship and politics and why she chose politics. She also tells us what kind of work JoinPolitics is doing and how they are trying to bring the agile and fast-paced startup mentality to the political landscape. The second block is about careers in politics. Caroline shares what the challenges of a career in politics are and why it might still be worth it. She also tells us what qualities make you a good fit for a career in politics. Episode 18 Daniel Metzler is the co-founder and CEO of Isar Aerospace. Daniel studied mechanical engineering at TU Wien and aerospace engineering at TUM. During his studies in Munich, he joined the rocket technology initiative WARR, where he worked on special rocket engines and met his later co-founders - Josef Fleischmann and Markus Brandl. In 2018, they founded Isar Aerospace Technologies GmbH. Isar Aerospace builds satellite launch vehicles that are smaller, cheaper, and more sustainable than existing ones. In the first block, Daniel tells us how he got into the aerospace industry and when and how he realized that he wanted to start a company in this field. In the second block, Daniel speaks about Isar Aerospace. Daniel shares what his founding experience was like and what fears and challenges he faced. He also talks about what he learned from other companies and what the rocket prototyping process looks like. The third block is about the importance of space technologies. Daniel explains how space technology improves life on Earth and what functions satellites perform. He also tells us what the challenges and opportunities of a hardware start-up are. Episode 17 Daniel Besendorfer is the CEO of Allianz Technology, the IT service provider of the Allianz Group. He studied economics in Freiburg and Boston and holds a PhD from the University of Freiburg. He started his career as an executive assistant in the German life insurance division of Allianz. Daniel quickly took on leadership responsibilities and progressed through many different positions at Allianz for almost 17 years before taking on his role as Chief Executive Officer of Allianz Technology earlier this year. In the first block, Daniel speaks about his role as CEO of Allianz Technology. He tells us how he got into this position and what it means to set the right guardrails as CEO of a large corporate. The second block is about working at Allianz. Daniel speaks about Allianz’s corporate values and how Allianz understands its social and environmental responsibilities. He also shares what Allianz is doing to bring women into leadership. In the third block, Daniel talks about innovation in the corporate world. He shares how innovation is driven at Allianz and why an entrepreneurial mindset is necessary also in the corporate context. He also speaks about how decisions regarding the adaption of new technologies are made at Allianz Technology. Interested to see more? Scroll further down for the full list of all episodes. Or simply check out Mostly Awesome on your favorite platform! We would love to hear what you think! We would love to hear what you think! Are you excited to contribute, want to be our next guest or just want say hey? Always feel free to contact us! Alternatively if you just want to leave us some feedback or if you have the perfect guest in mind, then this super short survey might be perfect for you! podcast@cdtm.de Mostly Awesome The team behind All Episodes
We and our partners use cookies to personalize your experience, to show you ads based on your interests, and for measurement and analytics purposes. By using our website and our services, you agree to our use of cookies as described in our Cookie Policy. This browser doesn't support Spotify Web Player. Switch browsers or download Spotify for your desktop. Mostly Awesome By Center for Digital Technology and Management (CDTM) Mostly Awesome is a podcast about the personal journeys of innovators. We talk to the doers and thinkers of our time to understand what motivates them and why they do what they do. Together we reflect upon their decisions, wins, and setbacks. Meet our inspiring yet relatable guests from the world of entrepreneurship and technology to find out what may help you to become an innovator of tomorrow! Get ready for bi-weekly episodes on Wednesdays. We are looking forward to our guests and your feedback to podcast@cdtm.de. Mostly Awesome is brought to you by the Center for Digital Technology and Management (CDTM) in Munich. For more information, check www.cdtm.de/podcast. And now lean back, listen in, and learn from the thought leaders of our time! Listen to Mostly Awesome now. Listen to Mostly Awesome in full in the Spotify app LegalPrivacyCookiesAbout Ads You look like someone who appreciates good music. Listen to all your favourite artists on any device for free or try the Premium trial.
Mostly Awesome
We and our partners use cookies to personalize your experience, to show you ads based on your interests, and for measurement and analytics purposes. By using our website and our services, you agree to our use of cookies as described in our Cookie Policy. This browser doesn't support Spotify Web Player. Switch browsers or download Spotify for your desktop. #19 Caroline Weimann: Politics - an important vehicle for social and ecological change By Center for Digital Technology and Management (CDTM) Caroline Weimann is the founder and co-director of JoinPolitics. JoinPolitics aims to open unusual routes into politics by supporting and giving seed capital to political talent and applying the disruptive and innovative nature of entrepreneurship to politics. Caroline holds a Master’s degree in International Studies from SOAS - University of London and an Executive MPA from the Hertie School of Governance. Previously, she worked on building social ventures at Siemens Stiftung, at the EU Commission, in NGO consulting at actori and in impact investing at Ananda Impact Ventures. 2:27 Caroline's personal journey towards politics Caroline explains the differences between social entrepreneurship and politics and why she chose politics. She also tells us what kind of work JoinPolitics is doing and how they are trying to bring the agile and fast-paced startup mentality to the political landscape. 22:56 Careers in politics Caroline shares the challenges of a career in politics and why it might still be worth it. She also tells us what qualities make you a good fit for a career in politics. Listen to #19 Caroline Weimann: Politics - an important vehicle for social and ecological change now. Listen to #19 Caroline Weimann: Politics - an important vehicle for social and ecological change in full in the Spotify app LegalPrivacyCookiesAbout Ads You look like someone who appreciates good music. Listen to all your favourite artists on any device for free or try the Premium trial.
We and our partners use cookies to personalize your experience, to show you ads based on your interests, and for measurement and analytics purposes. By using our website and our services, you agree to our use of cookies as described in our Cookie Policy. This browser doesn't support Spotify Web Player. Switch browsers or download Spotify for your desktop. #18 Daniel Metzler: It’s called hardware because its hard – founding in the aerospace industry By Center for Digital Technology and Management (CDTM) Daniel Metzler is the co-founder and CEO of Isar Aerospace. Daniel studied mechanical engineering at TU Wien and aerospace engineering at TUM. During his studies in Munich, he joined the rocket technology initiative WARR, where he worked on special rocket engines and met his later co-founders - Josef Fleischmann and Markus Brandl. In 2018, they founded Isar Aerospace Technologies GmbH. Isar Aerospace builds satellite launch vehicles that are smaller, cheaper, and more sustainable than existing ones. 2:24 How it all started Daniel tells us how he got into the aerospace industry and when and how he realized that he wanted to start a company in this field 08:10 Isar Aerospace: Aerospace technology made in Germany Daniel shares what his founding experience was like and what fears and challenges he faced. He also talks about what he learned from other companies and what the rocket prototyping process looks like. 24:08 The importance of space technologies Daniel explains how space technology improves life on Earth and what functions satellites perform. He also tells us what the challenges and opportunities of a hardware start-up are. Listen to #18 Daniel Metzler: It’s called hardware because its hard – founding in the aerospace industry now. Listen to #18 Daniel Metzler: It’s called hardware because its hard – founding in the aerospace industry in full in the Spotify app LegalPrivacyCookiesAbout Ads You look like someone who appreciates good music. Listen to all your favourite artists on any device for free or try the Premium trial.
We and our partners use cookies to personalize your experience, to show you ads based on your interests, and for measurement and analytics purposes. By using our website and our services, you agree to our use of cookies as described in our Cookie Policy. This browser doesn't support Spotify Web Player. Switch browsers or download Spotify for your desktop. #17 Daniel Besendorfer: Creating a mutual dialogue between business and technology By Center for Digital Technology and Management (CDTM) Daniel Besendorfer is the CEO of Allianz Technology, the IT service provider of the Allianz Group. He studied economics in Freiburg and Boston and holds a Ph.D. from the University of Freiburg. He started his career as an executive assistant in the German life insurance division of Allianz. Daniel quickly took on leadership responsibilities and progressed through many different positions at Allianz for almost 17 years before taking on his role as Chief Executive Officer of Allianz Technology earlier this year. 2:40 Daniel’s role as CEO of Allianz Technology: Daniel tells us how he got into this position and what it means to set the right guardrails as CEO of a large corporate. 24:33 Working at Allianz: Daniel speaks about Allianz’s corporate values and how Allianz understands its social and environmental responsibilities. He also shares what Allianz is doing to bring women into leadership. 35:39 Innovation in the corporate world: Daniel talks about how innovation is driven at Allianz and why an entrepreneurial mindset is necessary also in the corporate context. He also shares how decisions regarding the adaption of new technologies are made at Allianz Technology. Listen to #17 Daniel Besendorfer: Creating a mutual dialogue between business and technology now. Listen to #17 Daniel Besendorfer: Creating a mutual dialogue between business and technology in full in the Spotify app LegalPrivacyCookiesAbout Ads You look like someone who appreciates good music. Listen to all your favourite artists on any device for free or try the Premium trial.
We and our partners use cookies to personalize your experience, to show you ads based on your interests, and for measurement and analytics purposes. By using our website and our services, you agree to our use of cookies as described in our Cookie Policy. This browser doesn't support Spotify Web Player. Switch browsers or download Spotify for your desktop. #16 Alev Canoglu: Promoting equal opportunities By Center for Digital Technology and Management (CDTM) Alev Canoglu is the founder of the Munich-based non-profit organisation Female Tech Leaders, which aims to empower women in STEM and leadership positions and mentor tech-savvy girls. After graduating and working in the documentary film industry, Alev decided to change fields and studied computer science at LMU and TUM. Alev has previously led product initiatives at Siemens, Microsoft and Autoscout. 2:25 Alev's career path: In the beginning, Alev tells us why she moved from the arts to the tech industry. She shares the challenges she faced and talks about the differences between these two fields. Alev also tells us why and how she founded Female Tech Leaders and what projects she is pursuing with it. 22:44 Women in the tech industry: Alev shares her opinion on the status quo and speaks about what she thinks needs to be done next to achieve equal opportunities. Alev also tells us what she would advise every girl who wants to start a career in the tech industry. Listen to #16 Alev Canoglu: Promoting equal opportunities now. Listen to #16 Alev Canoglu: Promoting equal opportunities in full in the Spotify app LegalPrivacyCookiesAbout Ads You look like someone who appreciates good music. Listen to all your favourite artists on any device for free or try the Premium trial.
We and our partners use cookies to personalize your experience, to show you ads based on your interests, and for measurement and analytics purposes. By using our website and our services, you agree to our use of cookies as described in our Cookie Policy. This browser doesn't support Spotify Web Player. Switch browsers or download Spotify for your desktop. #15 Folkert Behrends: Balancing performance and recovery By Center for Digital Technology and Management (CDTM) Folkert Behrends is a triathlete and professional coach. After an accident in 2008, doctors told him he might never be able to walk again. But 15 months later, Folkert successfully competed in the Iron Man triathlon and became world champion in his age group. Building on this experience, he is now active as a speaker and as a coach for individuals, teams, and companies. In this role, he shares his insights on taking risks, believing in yourself, and striving for more, but also on patience and taking breaks. 2:17 Folkert’s thoughts on ambition: In the beginning, Folkert tells us how he keeps the discipline to do triathlons and why he thinks time off and relaxation are important. He also talks about what ambition can look like for different people and the differences between ambitious or striving and status quo. 32:38 Turning adversity into opportunity: Folkert shares how he turned adversity into opportunity in his personal story and what he learned from this experience. Listen to #15 Folkert Behrends: Balancing performance and recovery now. Listen to #15 Folkert Behrends: Balancing performance and recovery in full in the Spotify app LegalPrivacyCookiesAbout Ads You look like someone who appreciates good music. Listen to all your favourite artists on any device for free or try the Premium trial.
We and our partners use cookies to personalize your experience, to show you ads based on your interests, and for measurement and analytics purposes. By using our website and our services, you agree to our use of cookies as described in our Cookie Policy. This browser doesn't support Spotify Web Player. Switch browsers or download Spotify for your desktop. #14 Saskia Bruysten on social businesses – using economic thinking to generate social impact By Center for Digital Technology and Management (CDTM) Saskia Bruysten is co-founder and CEO of Yunus Social Business. After studying economics at EBS and LSE, Saskia started her career at Boston Consulting Group. After a crucial meeting with Nobel Peace Prize Laureate Prof. Muhammad Yunus, she decided to go into social business, and they eventually co-founded Yunus Social Business. Saskia is also an active member of the UN Commission's Expert Group on Social Business, as well as a lecturer at events including the World Economic Forum and the Clinton Global Initiative. In 2020, she co-initiated the COVID Alliance for Social Entrepreneurs with the World Economic Forum. 3:02 Saskia's career path from consulting to social business: In the beginning, Saskia describes how a typical day looks like for her. She also tells us how she decided what career to pursue after her time in consulting. 13:29 Saskia's experiences in social businesses Saskia explains how to target a client group that doesn't have a lot of money. She also shares how YSB decides which companies to invest in and how they measure the social and environmental impact. Listen to #14 Saskia Bruysten on social businesses – using economic thinking to generate social impact now. Listen to #14 Saskia Bruysten on social businesses – using economic thinking to generate social impact in full in the Spotify app LegalPrivacyCookiesAbout Ads You look like someone who appreciates good music. Listen to all your favourite artists on any device for free or try the Premium trial.
We and our partners use cookies to personalize your experience, to show you ads based on your interests, and for measurement and analytics purposes. By using our website and our services, you agree to our use of cookies as described in our Cookie Policy. This browser doesn't support Spotify Web Player. Switch browsers or download Spotify for your desktop. #13 Hana Milanov: A career in academia - a different perspective on entrepreneurship By Center for Digital Technology and Management (CDTM) Hana Milanov is a Professor of International Entrepreneurship at the Technical University of Munich and an active board member and mentor at CDTM. Hana studied management in Croatia, earned her Ph.D. in Entrepreneurship and Strategy in the U.S. and worked as a professor at IE Business School in Spain for 5 years. 3:07 Hana’s career in academia: In the beginning, Hana explains why she decided to do research and teach instead of being an entrepreneur. She also shares her initial challenges as an academic and how she stays motivated to keep researching. 17:10 Teaching and mentoring: Hana tells us about the first question she always asks her classes, why she doesn't give advice to her mentees and what she has learned from them. She also talks about particular challenges that women entrepreneurs are facing. 35:34 Hana’s international experiences: Hana shares her international experiences from Croatia, Spain, the U.S. and Germany and how the different cultures have shaped her. Listen to #13 Hana Milanov: A career in academia - a different perspective on entrepreneurship now. Listen to #13 Hana Milanov: A career in academia - a different perspective on entrepreneurship in full in the Spotify app LegalPrivacyCookiesAbout Ads You look like someone who appreciates good music. Listen to all your favourite artists on any device for free or try the Premium trial.
We and our partners use cookies to personalize your experience, to show you ads based on your interests, and for measurement and analytics purposes. By using our website and our services, you agree to our use of cookies as described in our Cookie Policy. This browser doesn't support Spotify Web Player. Switch browsers or download Spotify for your desktop. #12 Jakob Assmann: Why we need more entrepreneurs to avoid a climate crisis By Center for Digital Technology and Management (CDTM) Jakob is the founder of Greengas Concepts and Polarstern Energie, which are pioneers in developing sustainable energy and heating solutions. He is also the co-owner and managing director of Impact Hub Munich, which supports sustainable entrepreneurship and innovation. Before entering entrepreneurship, Jakob studied business administration and earned his Ph.D. at LMU Munich. 2:19 Jakob's career path: Jakob tells us about his journey to earn a Ph.D. and how this gave him time to reflect and figure out what he really wanted in life. He also shares his experience as a founder of two sustainable startups and explains his perspective on measuring impact. 26:52 Jakob's opinions about the future and entrepreneurship: Jakob shares his rather critical thoughts about the future and the climate crises and tells us why he thinks you should become an entrepreneur. Listen to #12 Jakob Assmann: Why we need more entrepreneurs to avoid a climate crisis now. Listen to #12 Jakob Assmann: Why we need more entrepreneurs to avoid a climate crisis in full in the Spotify app LegalPrivacyCookiesAbout Ads You look like someone who appreciates good music. Listen to all your favourite artists on any device for free or try the Premium trial.
We and our partners use cookies to personalize your experience, to show you ads based on your interests, and for measurement and analytics purposes. By using our website and our services, you agree to our use of cookies as described in our Cookie Policy. This browser doesn't support Spotify Web Player. Switch browsers or download Spotify for your desktop. #11 Veronika Riederle: From consulting to entrepreneurship - building something that matters to you By Center for Digital Technology and Management (CDTM) Veronika Riederle is the Founder and CEO of Demodesk, an intelligent meeting platform for remote sales that was supported by Y-Combinator. Veronika studied in Munich and New York and is an alumna of the CDTM. After graduating, she spent five years in consulting at Bain & Company before starting her own company. 2:31 Veronika's career choices: In the beginning, Veronika talks about why she initially decided to go into consulting and what she learned from that experience. She also shares her thoughts on the impact you can have in consulting vs. entrepreneurship. 15:07 Veronika's founding experience: Veronika explains how she started with the right person at the right time and tells us how she assembled a great team that shares their company values. 24:09 Women in Leadership: Veronika shares why she thinks we need more successful role models for young women and how she manages to be a founder and have a family at the same time. Listen to #11 Veronika Riederle: From consulting to entrepreneurship - building something that matters to you now. Listen to #11 Veronika Riederle: From consulting to entrepreneurship - building something that matters to you in full in the Spotify app LegalPrivacyCookiesAbout Ads You look like someone who appreciates good music. Listen to all your favourite artists on any device for free or try the Premium trial.
We and our partners use cookies to personalize your experience, to show you ads based on your interests, and for measurement and analytics purposes. By using our website and our services, you agree to our use of cookies as described in our Cookie Policy. This browser doesn't support Spotify Web Player. Switch browsers or download Spotify for your desktop. #10 Dan Ram: Host, speaker & coach - falling in love with what you are becoming By Center for Digital Technology and Management (CDTM) Dan Ram is a speaker, motivational coach and event host. He has hosted some of the biggest innovation and tech events, such as Bits & Pretzels, and has delivered 5 Ted Talks on a variety of topics, from motivational tips to the power of diversity. Before finding his passion as a host, Dan worked in many different jobs, including for the UN, as an entrepreneur, consultant, and voice-over artist. Dan grew up traveling the world as the son of an Indian diplomat, who made his way out of India’s lowest caste. 2:10 Dan’s winded career path: To get started, Dan talks about how he became a fulfilled host, after pursuing, in his words "nine or ten wildly different careers”. He shares his parents’ incredible journey of working themselves out of poverty despite India’s strict caste system and how it motivated him to go into personal development. Dan also explains how he learned to embrace the idea of being a generalist rather than the expert he wanted to be. 31:06 Dan’s motivational tips and views Dan talks about the power of routines and how he structures his day. He also shares the concept of his 4G-Mondays (goals, gym, god, gratitude). 40:15 Dan’s toolbox Last but not least, Dan shares his toolbox, including his favorite book and app and explains why he believes that the most inspiring innovator is yourself. Listen to #10 Dan Ram: Host, speaker & coach - falling in love with what you are becoming now. Listen to #10 Dan Ram: Host, speaker & coach - falling in love with what you are becoming in full in the Spotify app LegalPrivacyCookiesAbout Ads You look like someone who appreciates good music. Listen to all your favourite artists on any device for free or try the Premium trial.
We and our partners use cookies to personalize your experience, to show you ads based on your interests, and for measurement and analytics purposes. By using our website and our services, you agree to our use of cookies as described in our Cookie Policy. This browser doesn't support Spotify Web Player. Switch browsers or download Spotify for your desktop. #09 Anna Alex: Sustainable entrepreneurship - how to align purpose with profit By Center for Digital Technology and Management (CDTM) Anna Alex is the co-founder and COO of Planetly, a tech startup on a mission to help build a carbon neutral economy. Previously, she co-founded Outfittery, Europe's leading online personal shopping service for men. For her achievements, she was named one of the young elite top 40 under 40. 2:43 Anna's journey into entrepreneurship: In the beginning, Anna talks about how she got interested in the startup scene, what she learned during her time at Rocket Internet, and why she would not recommend going into consulting or VC as a graduate if you want to become a founder. She also tells us why she moved on from Outfittery and what "mistake" she made, that helped her in her next endeavor. 17:46 Anna's second startup Planetly: Anna shares why she founded a startup focused on tackling the climate crisis and how it unites purpose and profit. She also tells us what purpose means for her and how she thinks people can make a positive impact in many fields including the food industry, agriculture, and politics. 29:53 Anna's opinion on female entrepreneurship: Anna talks about her involvement in promoting female entrepreneurship and how being a female founder can be an advantage in this male-dominated space. She also explains why she believes it is important for female founders to be bolder when raising money from investors. Listen to #09 Anna Alex: Sustainable entrepreneurship - how to align purpose with profit now. Listen to #09 Anna Alex: Sustainable entrepreneurship - how to align purpose with profit in full in the Spotify app LegalPrivacyCookiesAbout Ads You look like someone who appreciates good music. Listen to all your favourite artists on any device for free or try the Premium trial.
We and our partners use cookies to personalize your experience, to show you ads based on your interests, and for measurement and analytics purposes. By using our website and our services, you agree to our use of cookies as described in our Cookie Policy. This browser doesn't support Spotify Web Player. Switch browsers or download Spotify for your desktop. #08 Nino Ulsamer: Serial Entrepreneur – the winded road to build a successful startup By Center for Digital Technology and Management (CDTM) Nino Ulsamer is a serial entrepreneur and currently CTO of StashAway in Singapore, a digital wealth management platform that personalizes financial planning and portfolio management. He has founded seven times on three different continents, out of which two companies have already become a great success. 03:52 Nino's early career and his decision to become a founder: In the beginning, Nino talks about his personal journey of becoming a founder, how CDTM impacted his decision, and why he chose entrepreneurship over consulting. We also learn from Nino what he enjoys most about being an entrepreneur and why he thinks every founder needs grit and curiosity to succeed. 14:43 Nino's international experience: Having spent four years in Russia building the e-commerce platform Westwing for the German investor Rocket Internet, Nino shares what cultural difficulties he encountered while living there and leading a 150-employee company, with most of the business conducted in Russian. 24:19 Nino's current startup StashAway: Nino tells us why he moved on to found StashAway in Singapore and how he met his co-founders abroad. He also touches on how he overcame doubts after his first startups failed. 34:31 Nino's toolbox: In the end, we get insights into Nino's toolbox, including his favorite podcast and morning routine, and he reveals why he believes everyone has an innovator inside of him or her. Listen to #08 Nino Ulsamer: Serial Entrepreneur – the winded road to build a successful startup now. Listen to #08 Nino Ulsamer: Serial Entrepreneur – the winded road to build a successful startup in full in the Spotify app LegalPrivacyCookiesAbout Ads You look like someone who appreciates good music. Listen to all your favourite artists on any device for free or try the Premium trial.
Mostly Awesome – a podcast by cdtm New Episodes every 2nd Wednesday What is it about? Mostly Awesome is a podcast about the personal journeys of innovators. We talk to the doers and thinkers of our time to understand what motivates them and why they do what they do. Together we reflect upon their decisions, wins and setbacks. Meet our inspiring yet relatable guest from the world of entrepreneurship and technology to find out what may help you to become an innovator of tomorrow! Excited? Check it out! Mostly Awesome is available everywhere where podcasts are. So simply tune in and have a listen! Or just click on the icon of your favorite service to be taken there directly! LATEST Episodes Episode 18 Daniel Metzler is the co-founder and CEO of Isar Aerospace. Daniel studied mechanical engineering at TU Wien and aerospace engineering at TUM. During his studies in Munich, he joined the rocket technology initiative WARR, where he worked on special rocket engines and met his later co-founders - Josef Fleischmann and Markus Brandl. In 2018, they founded Isar Aerospace Technologies GmbH. Isar Aerospace builds satellite launch vehicles that are smaller, cheaper, and more sustainable than existing ones. In the first block, Daniel tells us how he got into the aerospace industry and when and how he realized that he wanted to start a company in this field. In the second block, Daniel speaks about Isar Aerospace. Daniel shares what his founding experience was like and what fears and challenges he faced. He also talks about what he learned from other companies and what the rocket prototyping process looks like. The third block is about the importance of space technologies. Daniel explains how space technology improves life on Earth and what functions satellites perform. He also tells us what the challenges and opportunities of a hardware start-up are. Episode 17 Daniel Besendorfer is the CEO of Allianz Technology, the IT service provider of the Allianz Group. He studied economics in Freiburg and Boston and holds a PhD from the University of Freiburg. He started his career as an executive assistant in the German life insurance division of Allianz. Daniel quickly took on leadership responsibilities and progressed through many different positions at Allianz for almost 17 years before taking on his role as Chief Executive Officer of Allianz Technology earlier this year. In the first block, Daniel speaks about his role as CEO of Allianz Technology. He tells us how he got into this position and what it means to set the right guardrails as CEO of a large corporate. The second block is about working at Allianz. Daniel speaks about Allianz’s corporate values and how Allianz understands its social and environmental responsibilities. He also shares what Allianz is doing to bring women into leadership. In the third block, Daniel talks about innovation in the corporate world. He shares how innovation is driven at Allianz and why an entrepreneurial mindset is necessary also in the corporate context. He also speaks about how decisions regarding the adaption of new technologies are made at Allianz Technology. Episode 16 Alev Canoglu is the founder of the Munich-based non-profit organisation Female Tech Leaders, which aims to empower women in STEM and leadership positions and mentor tech-savvy girls. After graduating and working in the documentary film industry, Alev decided to change fields and studied computer science at LMU and TUM. Alev has previously led product initiatives at Siemens, Microsoft and Autoscout. In the first block, Alev talks about her career path. She tells us why she moved from the arts to the tech industry. She shares the challenges she faced and talks about the differences between these two fields. Alev also tells us why and how she founded Female Tech Leaders and what projects she is pursuing with it. In the second block, Alev speaks about women in the tech industry. She shares her opinion on the status quo and speaks about what she thinks needs to be done next to achieve equal opportunities. Alev also tells us what she would advise every girl who wants to start a career in the tech industry. Interested to see more? Scroll further down for the full list of all episodes. Or simply check out Mostly Awesome on your favorite platform! We would love to hear what you think! We would love to hear what you think! Are you excited to contribute, want to be our next guest or just want say hey? Always feel free to contact us! Alternatively if you just want to leave us some feedback or if you have the perfect guest in mind, then this super short survey might be perfect for you! podcast@cdtm.de Mostly Awesome The team behind All Episodes
JOIN US! INTERESTED IN JOINING THE CDTM? Apply to the interdisciplinary add-on study program “Technology Management” to be one of the new students starting next semester. We are curious and happy to meet you and to maybe soon welcome you as a new member of CDTM. Find all the application requirements below. HOW TO APPLY HOW TO APPLY ADMISSION Every semester, approximately 25 students start their studies in „Technology Management“ at CDTM. All students go through a rigorous selection process consisting of an online written application and a personal interview. The two-stage interview process guarantees a high level of qualification of the students admitted to the program. DOCUMENTS During the application you will need the following: Before you start your application, please ensure you meet the formal requirements. DEADLINES Apply until May 30th 23:59 CET (fall term) for an intake in August and by November 30th 23:59 CET (spring term) for an intake in the following February. Applications open May 1st for the intake in August and November 1st for the intake in the following February. The upcoming Trend Seminar for the Class of Fall 2021 starts August 10th. More information can be found in our FAQs (“Program Structure”). Please submit your application via the online application system. Information events take place in November and May of every year. OPEN QUESTIONS? OPEN QUESTIONS? You are wondering how you can combine your studies with our Honors Degree in Technology Management? You have questions about the application process? You would like to meet current students and find out what it is like to study at the CDTM? Get to know us at our upcoming events or follow us on our social media channels to stay up to date! START TODAY! For your application please walk through the CDTM online application system and register as a new user.
TALENTS AT CDTM Students projects in the context of digital innovation We believe the best way to get to know one another is through work on innovative challenges. Every semester 10-15 industry partners are closely collaborating with our students on cutting-edge challenges as part of our innovation formats and convince one another with their know-how, philosophy and engagement. Find out more about our innovation formats. Get exposure within the CDTM community You would like to increase your presence at the CDTM and get in closer contact with our students and alumni? We offer you the following services to present your company or organization within the CDTM community and beyond: Please get in touch with us to get an individualized offers that suit your needs. Funding of PhD Positions PhD candidates conduct research as part of their dissertation project and are supervised by excellent CDTM Board Professors at either LMU or TUM. If you are interested in a comprehensive and holistic scientific overview of a topic of high relevance for your organization and industry funding a PhD position might be an interesting opportunity for you. Contact Us Carla Pregel Hoderlein Contact Us Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Subject Your Message
SHARE YOUR EXPERTISE Domain experts within the CDTM curriculum We believe that in an innovation context, knowledge shared by domain experts trumps the theoretical studying of textbooks. Thus, we invite domain experts to spread their insights to the next generation of innovators. For our course formats we are continuously looking for experts in the following fields: Speakers for CDTM Future Leadership Series The CDTM Future Leadership Series (FLS) is a speaker series about leadership topics. At each FLS, one highly successful leader from business, politics or society provides unique insights into their career, leadership philosophy in an intimate fireside chat. Past speakers include Roman Herzog (Former President of Germany), Jeff Burton (Co-Founder Electronic Arts), Joe Kaeser (CEO Siemens), Philipp Rösler (Managing Director of World Economic Forum) and many more. Do you know inspiring leaders that would like to share their story in a CDTM Future Leadership event? Let’s talk! Speakers for CDTM Inspire&Dine The CDTM Inspire&Dine is an open TED-talk like evening with three to four inspiring speakers and 300+ ambitious students and young professionals. Speakers come from diverse fields and share a passion for technology, innovation, entrepreneurship and extraordinary stories. In the past, we have hosted professional violinists, business leaders, neuroscientists and AI-experts, who inspired the audience with their talks. Do you know inspiring personalities or would like to share your story in one of the next CDTM Inspire&Dine events? Let’s talk! Upcoming Inspire&Dine Events Contact Us Carla Pregel Hoderlein Contact Us Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Subject Your Message
YOUR WAY TO CDTM Visitor Address Center for Digital Technology and Management Marsstr. 20-22 80335 Munich, Germany CDTM is located on the ground floor. PDF Directions – How to find us POSTAL ADDRESS Center for Digital Technology and Management Arcisstr. 21 80333 Munich, Germany Communication Phone: +49 89 289 – 28567 Fax: +49 89 289 – 28459 info@cdtm.de
About Lisa Neu ELab Project with Ebenbuild – Entrepreneurship for Students One of the three main courses at CDTM is the Entrepreneurship Laboratory (eLab). The eLab is a project-based course of twelve weeks focusing on entrepreneurship for students. The student teams answer strategic business questions ranging from market entry strategy to a new pricing strategy for a SaaS product. To [...] Needs-driven Innovation Course “Health Business Lab” by CDTM and EIT Health Health innovators wanted Dear international students, The Center for Digital Technology and Management (CDTM) together with EIT Health (European Institute for Innovation and Technology) is offering you the chance to apply for the course “Health Business Lab“. Throughout twelve weeks, you will work in an interdisciplinary and international team of 4-5 exceptional students to [...] EliteCup 2019 – a Mostly Awesome Soccer Tournament in Regensburg Last month, a team of CDTM students participated in the EliteCup, a yearly soccer tournament of the Elitenetzwerk Bayern. As one of the finalists of last year, the team was highly motivated to bring the trophy back home to Munich. The rules of the tournament are similar to the [...] Trend Seminar Spring 2019: The Data-driven Future of Dairy “Hey, you! Yes, you! May I sit with you? Yes? Great! Let me ask you a question: When does the CDTM journey start? Is it in the moment of the application, the interview, the confirmation you were accepted? Is it the kick-off weekend where you get to know your [...] CDTM Climate Club The Story Behind the Climate Club Being a “Centerling” is not only about participating in the program as a student and coming together biannually at the Christmas party and the Homecoming weekend. The term also encompasses a deeper meaning, which is reflected in our core values. Everything in and [...] EIT Health Workshop: Empowering Women Entrepreneurs in Health Innovation Are you a female entrepreneur or scientist with a great new business idea in mind but unsure how to put it into practice? Or are you just missing the space to discuss your idea and the challenges that come along with it? Together with our partner EIT Health, the [...] Hands-on course “Health Product Creation” by CDTM and EIT Health Health innovators wanted Dear international students, The Center for Digital Technology and Management (CDTM) together with EIT Health (European Institute for Innovation and Technology) is offering you the chance to apply for the hands-on course “Health Product Creation“. Throughout twelve weeks, you will work in an interdisciplinary and international team of 4-5 exceptional students [...] CDTM visits YGA in Turkey It’s not every day that the eLab projects allow for international travel, but two Centerlings, Fabian Pelzl and Thomas Li, seize a unique opportunity to visit their project partner, Young Guru Academy (YGA), a non-profit organization based in Istanbul at the end of eLab. YGA is a social organization [...] Center Farming In addition to the core courses, students at the CDTM can choose electives. This semester our Center Assistants (CAs) came up with something extraordinary: “Center Farming”. During the course of the semester, we built a “food computer”. A tabletop-sized, controlled environment agriculture technology platform that uses robotic systems to [...] Social Hackathon with App Camps The sun is at its peak and exams are over. The perfect time for the Social Entrepreneurship Elective to go on a hackathon to Hamburg. The goal of the Social Entrepreneurship Elective is to critically think about the concept of Social Entrepreneurship and its different dimensions. After input sessions [...]
JOIN US! INTERESTED IN JOINING THE CDTM? Apply to the interdisciplinary add-on study program “Technology Management” to be one of the new students starting next semester. We are curious and happy to meet you and to maybe soon welcome you as a new member of CDTM. Find all the application requirements below. HOW TO APPLY HOW TO APPLY ADMISSION Every semester, approximately 25 students start their studies in „Technology Management“ at CDTM. All students go through a rigorous selection process consisting of an online written application and a personal interview. The two-stage interview process guarantees a high level of qualification of the students admitted to the program. DOCUMENTS During the application you will need the following: Before you start your application, please ensure you meet the formal requirements. DEADLINES Apply until May 30th 23:59 CET (fall term) for an intake in August and by November 30th 23:59 CET (spring term) for an intake in the following February. Applications open May 1st for the intake in August and November 1st for the intake in the following February. The upcoming Trend Seminar for the Class of Fall 2021 starts August 10th. More information can be found in our FAQs (“Program Structure”). Please submit your application via the online application system. Information events take place in November and May of every year. OPEN QUESTIONS? OPEN QUESTIONS? You are wondering how you can combine your studies with our Honors Degree in Technology Management? You have questions about the application process? You would like to meet current students and find out what it is like to study at the CDTM? Get to know us at our upcoming events or follow us on our social media channels to stay up to date! START TODAY! For your application please walk through the CDTM online application system and register as a new user.
TALENTS AT CDTM Students projects in the context of digital innovation We believe the best way to get to know one another is through work on innovative challenges. Every semester 10-15 industry partners are closely collaborating with our students on cutting-edge challenges as part of our innovation formats and convince one another with their know-how, philosophy and engagement. Find out more about our innovation formats. Get exposure within the CDTM community You would like to increase your presence at the CDTM and get in closer contact with our students and alumni? We offer you the following services to present your company or organization within the CDTM community and beyond: Please get in touch with us to get an individualized offers that suit your needs. Funding of PhD Positions PhD candidates conduct research as part of their dissertation project and are supervised by excellent CDTM Board Professors at either LMU or TUM. If you are interested in a comprehensive and holistic scientific overview of a topic of high relevance for your organization and industry funding a PhD position might be an interesting opportunity for you. Contact Us Carla Pregel Hoderlein Contact Us Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Subject Your Message
SHARE YOUR EXPERTISE Domain experts within the CDTM curriculum We believe that in an innovation context, knowledge shared by domain experts trumps the theoretical studying of textbooks. Thus, we invite domain experts to spread their insights to the next generation of innovators. For our course formats we are continuously looking for experts in the following fields: Speakers for CDTM Future Leadership Series The CDTM Future Leadership Series (FLS) is a speaker series about leadership topics. At each FLS, one highly successful leader from business, politics or society provides unique insights into their career, leadership philosophy in an intimate fireside chat. Past speakers include Roman Herzog (Former President of Germany), Jeff Burton (Co-Founder Electronic Arts), Joe Kaeser (CEO Siemens), Philipp Rösler (Managing Director of World Economic Forum) and many more. Do you know inspiring leaders that would like to share their story in a CDTM Future Leadership event? Let’s talk! Speakers for CDTM Inspire&Dine The CDTM Inspire&Dine is an open TED-talk like evening with three to four inspiring speakers and 300+ ambitious students and young professionals. Speakers come from diverse fields and share a passion for technology, innovation, entrepreneurship and extraordinary stories. In the past, we have hosted professional violinists, business leaders, neuroscientists and AI-experts, who inspired the audience with their talks. Do you know inspiring personalities or would like to share your story in one of the next CDTM Inspire&Dine events? Let’s talk! Upcoming Inspire&Dine Events Contact Us Carla Pregel Hoderlein Contact Us Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Subject Your Message
YOUR WAY TO CDTM Visitor Address Center for Digital Technology and Management Marsstr. 20-22 80335 Munich, Germany CDTM is located on the ground floor. PDF Directions – How to find us POSTAL ADDRESS Center for Digital Technology and Management Arcisstr. 21 80333 Munich, Germany Communication Phone: +49 89 289 – 28567 Fax: +49 89 289 – 28459 info@cdtm.de
Events Search and Views Navigation Events Search Upcoming Events
Events Search and Views Navigation Events Search Past Events October 2021 Trend Seminar Fall 2021
JOIN US! INTERESTED IN JOINING THE CDTM? Apply to the interdisciplinary add-on study program “Technology Management” to be one of the new students starting next semester. We are curious and happy to meet you and to maybe soon welcome you as a new member of CDTM. Find all the application requirements below. HOW TO APPLY HOW TO APPLY ADMISSION Every semester, approximately 25 students start their studies in „Technology Management“ at CDTM. All students go through a rigorous selection process consisting of an online written application and a personal interview. The two-stage interview process guarantees a high level of qualification of the students admitted to the program. DOCUMENTS During the application you will need the following: Before you start your application, please ensure you meet the formal requirements. DEADLINES Apply until May 30th 23:59 CET (fall term) for an intake in August and by November 30th 23:59 CET (spring term) for an intake in the following February. Applications open May 1st for the intake in August and November 1st for the intake in the following February. The upcoming Trend Seminar for the Class of Fall 2021 starts August 10th. More information can be found in our FAQs (“Program Structure”). Please submit your application via the online application system. Information events take place in November and May of every year. OPEN QUESTIONS? OPEN QUESTIONS? You are wondering how you can combine your studies with our Honors Degree in Technology Management? You have questions about the application process? You would like to meet current students and find out what it is like to study at the CDTM? Get to know us at our upcoming events or follow us on our social media channels to stay up to date! START TODAY! For your application please walk through the CDTM online application system and register as a new user.
TALENTS AT CDTM Students projects in the context of digital innovation We believe the best way to get to know one another is through work on innovative challenges. Every semester 10-15 industry partners are closely collaborating with our students on cutting-edge challenges as part of our innovation formats and convince one another with their know-how, philosophy and engagement. Find out more about our innovation formats. Get exposure within the CDTM community You would like to increase your presence at the CDTM and get in closer contact with our students and alumni? We offer you the following services to present your company or organization within the CDTM community and beyond: Please get in touch with us to get an individualized offers that suit your needs. Funding of PhD Positions PhD candidates conduct research as part of their dissertation project and are supervised by excellent CDTM Board Professors at either LMU or TUM. If you are interested in a comprehensive and holistic scientific overview of a topic of high relevance for your organization and industry funding a PhD position might be an interesting opportunity for you. Contact Us Carla Pregel Hoderlein Contact Us Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Subject Your Message
SHARE YOUR EXPERTISE Domain experts within the CDTM curriculum We believe that in an innovation context, knowledge shared by domain experts trumps the theoretical studying of textbooks. Thus, we invite domain experts to spread their insights to the next generation of innovators. For our course formats we are continuously looking for experts in the following fields: Speakers for CDTM Future Leadership Series The CDTM Future Leadership Series (FLS) is a speaker series about leadership topics. At each FLS, one highly successful leader from business, politics or society provides unique insights into their career, leadership philosophy in an intimate fireside chat. Past speakers include Roman Herzog (Former President of Germany), Jeff Burton (Co-Founder Electronic Arts), Joe Kaeser (CEO Siemens), Philipp Rösler (Managing Director of World Economic Forum) and many more. Do you know inspiring leaders that would like to share their story in a CDTM Future Leadership event? Let’s talk! Speakers for CDTM Inspire&Dine The CDTM Inspire&Dine is an open TED-talk like evening with three to four inspiring speakers and 300+ ambitious students and young professionals. Speakers come from diverse fields and share a passion for technology, innovation, entrepreneurship and extraordinary stories. In the past, we have hosted professional violinists, business leaders, neuroscientists and AI-experts, who inspired the audience with their talks. Do you know inspiring personalities or would like to share your story in one of the next CDTM Inspire&Dine events? Let’s talk! Upcoming Inspire&Dine Events Contact Us Carla Pregel Hoderlein Contact Us Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Subject Your Message
YOUR WAY TO CDTM Visitor Address Center for Digital Technology and Management Marsstr. 20-22 80335 Munich, Germany CDTM is located on the ground floor. PDF Directions – How to find us POSTAL ADDRESS Center for Digital Technology and Management Arcisstr. 21 80333 Munich, Germany Communication Phone: +49 89 289 – 28567 Fax: +49 89 289 – 28459 info@cdtm.de
JOIN US! INTERESTED IN JOINING THE CDTM? Apply to the interdisciplinary add-on study program “Technology Management” to be one of the new students starting next semester. We are curious and happy to meet you and to maybe soon welcome you as a new member of CDTM. Find all the application requirements below. HOW TO APPLY HOW TO APPLY ADMISSION Every semester, approximately 25 students start their studies in „Technology Management“ at CDTM. All students go through a rigorous selection process consisting of an online written application and a personal interview. The two-stage interview process guarantees a high level of qualification of the students admitted to the program. DOCUMENTS During the application you will need the following: Before you start your application, please ensure you meet the formal requirements. DEADLINES Apply until May 30th 23:59 CET (fall term) for an intake in August and by November 30th 23:59 CET (spring term) for an intake in the following February. Applications open May 1st for the intake in August and November 1st for the intake in the following February. The upcoming Trend Seminar for the Class of Fall 2021 starts August 10th. More information can be found in our FAQs (“Program Structure”). Please submit your application via the online application system. Information events take place in November and May of every year. OPEN QUESTIONS? OPEN QUESTIONS? You are wondering how you can combine your studies with our Honors Degree in Technology Management? You have questions about the application process? You would like to meet current students and find out what it is like to study at the CDTM? Get to know us at our upcoming events or follow us on our social media channels to stay up to date! START TODAY! For your application please walk through the CDTM online application system and register as a new user.
About Charlotte Kobiella Self Leadership Backbone at CDTM with Bridgingpositions We, as Centerlings, are invariably occupied and handling countably many responsibilities at once. Studies, projects, work, and our personal life ask for our attention every day. We are constantly running from one appointment to the next, while our daily routine leaves no space to contemplate whether our endeavors will [...]
JOIN US! INTERESTED IN JOINING THE CDTM? Apply to the interdisciplinary add-on study program “Technology Management” to be one of the new students starting next semester. We are curious and happy to meet you and to maybe soon welcome you as a new member of CDTM. Find all the application requirements below. HOW TO APPLY HOW TO APPLY ADMISSION Every semester, approximately 25 students start their studies in „Technology Management“ at CDTM. All students go through a rigorous selection process consisting of an online written application and a personal interview. The two-stage interview process guarantees a high level of qualification of the students admitted to the program. DOCUMENTS During the application you will need the following: Before you start your application, please ensure you meet the formal requirements. DEADLINES Apply until May 30th 23:59 CET (fall term) for an intake in August and by November 30th 23:59 CET (spring term) for an intake in the following February. Applications open May 1st for the intake in August and November 1st for the intake in the following February. The upcoming Trend Seminar for the Class of Fall 2021 starts August 10th. More information can be found in our FAQs (“Program Structure”). Please submit your application via the online application system. Information events take place in November and May of every year. OPEN QUESTIONS? OPEN QUESTIONS? You are wondering how you can combine your studies with our Honors Degree in Technology Management? You have questions about the application process? You would like to meet current students and find out what it is like to study at the CDTM? Get to know us at our upcoming events or follow us on our social media channels to stay up to date! START TODAY! For your application please walk through the CDTM online application system and register as a new user.
TALENTS AT CDTM Students projects in the context of digital innovation We believe the best way to get to know one another is through work on innovative challenges. Every semester 10-15 industry partners are closely collaborating with our students on cutting-edge challenges as part of our innovation formats and convince one another with their know-how, philosophy and engagement. Find out more about our innovation formats. Get exposure within the CDTM community You would like to increase your presence at the CDTM and get in closer contact with our students and alumni? We offer you the following services to present your company or organization within the CDTM community and beyond: Please get in touch with us to get an individualized offers that suit your needs. Funding of PhD Positions PhD candidates conduct research as part of their dissertation project and are supervised by excellent CDTM Board Professors at either LMU or TUM. If you are interested in a comprehensive and holistic scientific overview of a topic of high relevance for your organization and industry funding a PhD position might be an interesting opportunity for you. Contact Us Carla Pregel Hoderlein Contact Us Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Subject Your Message
SHARE YOUR EXPERTISE Domain experts within the CDTM curriculum We believe that in an innovation context, knowledge shared by domain experts trumps the theoretical studying of textbooks. Thus, we invite domain experts to spread their insights to the next generation of innovators. For our course formats we are continuously looking for experts in the following fields: Speakers for CDTM Future Leadership Series The CDTM Future Leadership Series (FLS) is a speaker series about leadership topics. At each FLS, one highly successful leader from business, politics or society provides unique insights into their career, leadership philosophy in an intimate fireside chat. Past speakers include Roman Herzog (Former President of Germany), Jeff Burton (Co-Founder Electronic Arts), Joe Kaeser (CEO Siemens), Philipp Rösler (Managing Director of World Economic Forum) and many more. Do you know inspiring leaders that would like to share their story in a CDTM Future Leadership event? Let’s talk! Speakers for CDTM Inspire&Dine The CDTM Inspire&Dine is an open TED-talk like evening with three to four inspiring speakers and 300+ ambitious students and young professionals. Speakers come from diverse fields and share a passion for technology, innovation, entrepreneurship and extraordinary stories. In the past, we have hosted professional violinists, business leaders, neuroscientists and AI-experts, who inspired the audience with their talks. Do you know inspiring personalities or would like to share your story in one of the next CDTM Inspire&Dine events? Let’s talk! Upcoming Inspire&Dine Events Contact Us Carla Pregel Hoderlein Contact Us Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Subject Your Message
YOUR WAY TO CDTM Visitor Address Center for Digital Technology and Management Marsstr. 20-22 80335 Munich, Germany CDTM is located on the ground floor. PDF Directions – How to find us POSTAL ADDRESS Center for Digital Technology and Management Arcisstr. 21 80333 Munich, Germany Communication Phone: +49 89 289 – 28567 Fax: +49 89 289 – 28459 info@cdtm.de
CURRICULUM THREE CORE COURSES AND LOTS OF ELECTIVES The study program at CDTM is completed within two to four semesters, depending on the student’s individual study situation, with courses amounting to 45 ECTS credits. Once they obtain the Master degree in their main studies, students are awarded the Honours Degree in Technology Management. To obtain it, students are required to have spent one term abroad. The curriculum consists of three core courses and a large variety of electives. Courses cover the following five interdisciplinary areas: The different course formats at CDTM enable students to obtain hands-on skills while working together with project partners on real-world problems. After having completed the program, students will have gained experience in identifying key indicators of future trends, methods to conceptualize a first prototype, as well as frameworks to implement business processes in an entrepreneurial environment. Technology Management is an add-on study program to be attended in parallel to the student’s regular studies. Please note that CDTM does not offer a stand-alone master program. Downloads Trend Seminar Students learn how the business environment may develop in the future through analyzing trends, describing future scenarios, and developing promising business ideas in cooperation with industry partners. Example projects: Fighting Hunger in the Digital Era (UN World Food Programme), Creating and Sustaining Healthy Habits (Adidas Anticipation), Sensor-Based Authentication (Siemens) Managing Product Development The research, design, and development of new products and services is at the core of this course. Students go through the value-chain of product development: from ideation and prototyping to agile development and product deployment. Example projects: leveraging AR to improve the lives of dementia patients, digitizing farming processes through satellite imagery, virtual assistants in airline maintenance processes Entrepreneurship Laboratory Within eLab, student teams work on business challenges presented by project partners, ranging from pricing and marketing to company strategy. The course format enables students to act as consultive entrepreneurs. Example projects: Building a network of doctors for online consultation services, digital service models for smart production companies, B2B-multichannel sales strategy for the heating sector Electives and Hackathons Electives cover a variety of topics, from business and tech skills to personal development. They are designed to complement the core courses by offering students the opportunity to deepen their knowledge in an area of their choice. Example projects: sketching with hardware, venture financing, self-leadership and career planning START TODAY! For your application please walk through the CDTM online application system and register as a new user.
Trend reports elaborated by our students Trend Report Spring 2020 Public Administration in the Digital Era Our interaction with public and governmental institutions and processes have largely remained unaffected by new digital technologies. With an increasingly complex social environment and growing population of digital native citizens, new technologies provide an ideal starting point to enable – and even demand – a shift towards a digital public administration. This new environment requires government and public administration to re-evaluate its roles and responsibilities towards citizens in order to steer digitalisation into a direction in conformity with the social market economy. Their interaction with citizens – both digitally and personally – need to be evaluated and designed in a way to increase both efficiency, security and trust in public and governmental authorities. This report identifies current trends that affect the future of public administration until 2040 and derives four future scenarios as well as five related business ideas. Trend Report Fall 2019 Parentech – The Future of Parenting The advancement of technology and the increasingly dynamic environment have permeated all aspects of all our lives in simple and complex ways – even for children at young age which raises the question: To what extent has this changed parenting to-date, and what will raising children and the interaction between parents and their children look like in 20 years from today? Parents face many questions nowadays: What role does technology play for our child, and does this change the relationship between our child and us? What leisure activities and education should our child pursue at what age to be prepared for its future? How do our family values evolve? What way can we ensure to fulfil our responsibilities as a parent while looking after ourselves? This report identifies current trends that affect the future of parenting in the next twenty years and derives four future scenarios as well as five related business ideas. Trend Report Fall 2018 The Digital Future of the Construction Industry Digital technologies are constantly pushing us towards an ever more connected world and have a significant impact on our daily private and business life. Whereas our living environment becomes more and more reliant on digital technologies, the construction industry – responsible for building this environment – is still almost entirely detached from the digital age. However, with the increasing complexity of future cities, new technologies provide an ideal starting point to enable the shift towards a digital construction industry. This opens up new potentials for more efficient and sustainable construction processes on the one hand and new business opportunities for construction contractors on the other hand. This report identifies current trends that affect the digitization of the construction industry and derives four future scenarios as well as five related business ideas. Trend Report Spring 2018 Digital Companions in the factory of the future Digital technologies are constantly pushing us towards an ever more connected world and have a significant impact on our daily private life and business environment. Whereas we are already used to talking to our personal digital devices in the form of Siri, Alexa, or other voice and virtual assistants, our workplaces still heavily rely on non-personalized, manual processes. This is especially true for factory settings. Increasing complexity – due to individualized manufacturing – can be met with digital companion systems based on new technologies, such as Natural Language Processing and Artificial Intelligence. This opens up potentials for increased efficiency on the one hand and a more enjoyable working environment for employees on the other hand. But which technologies are best suited for digital companions? How are employees’ needs best addressed? Which data is available or needed? This report presents current trends in the field of manufacturing. Four scenarios are derived from these findings that vividly depict possible futures. In the final part, five business ideas are elaborated and validated in each of the four future scenarios. Trend Report Fall 2017 Customer Interaction in the Telco Industry Digital technologies are enabling an ever more connected world – in a private as well as business context – and have a significant impact on the telecommunications industry. Services are becoming more readily available and convenient for telco customers and businesses are able to optimize and automate processes. Increasing digitization, however, also leads to new and different customer expectations in B2C and B2B interactions. These developments lead to a growing urgency for innovative ways to turn insights on telco customer behavior into future-proof business models. This report presents current trends in the field of customer interaction in the telco industry. Four scenarios are derived from these findings that vividly depict possible futures. In the final part, five business ideas are elaborated and validated in each of the four future scenarios. Trend Report Spring 2017 Creating and Sustaining Healthy Habits The increasing concentration of living and working space in urban environments is making it more and more difficult for people from any age group to engage in sports activities and practice healthy nutrition. Furthermore, through an increasing digitization of our daily life and an increasingly connected world, the border between work and spare time is becoming more and more indistinguishable. These trends lead to a growing urgency for innovative ways to create and sustain healthy habits – taking into consideration how people eat, move, and live mindfulness. This report presents trends in the field of healthy habits. From these findings, four scenarios are derived that vividly depict possible futures. In the final part, five business ideas are elaborated that propose novel ways to address the above mentioned challenges. Trend Report Fall 2016 Digital Innovation in Diabetes Care Diabetes is a set of chronic metabolic diseases, in which the body can either not produce enough insulin or not process insulin correctly, resulting in raised levels of blood glucose. Diabetes not only has a high prevalence – currently affecting one out of eleven adults worldwide – but is also a very serious condition: In 2015, diabetes caused more adult deaths globally than HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria combined according, to the International Diabetes Federation. Current trends, such as the obesity pandemic, increasing life expectancy, and urbanization lead to a growing prevalence of the disease and the need for innovation in diabetes care. This report presents trends in the field of diabetes care. From these findings, four scenarios are derived that vividly depict possible futures. In the final part, five business ideas are elaborated and validated in each of the four scenarios. Trend Report Spring 2016 Fighting Hunger in the Digital Era The supermarket – the modern land of milk and honey! Located just around the corner, it provides us with a magnificent selection of food and beverages: fresh fruits and vegetables from all over the world, meat and fish in abundance, coffee from Brazil, rice from Thailand, beef from Argentina – every product available 24/7. For most inhabitants of the industrialized world, purchasing and consuming food is easy and convenient. No dirty hands, only a few dirty dishes. Food consumption has become so easy and cheap that it is done on an excessive level: since 1980, the number of obesity cases has doubled globally and reached more than 1.4 billion adults in 2008 according to the World Health Organization Fact sheet No. 311 (2012). This report presents trends in the field of fighting hunger. From these findings, four scenarios are derived that vividly depict possible futures. In the final part, five business ideas are elaborated and validated in each of the four scenarios. Trend Report Fall 2015 Entrepreneurship in Bavaria Entrepreneurship plays a crucial role in modern knowledge societies. Startup companies enter the market with novel products, services and business models, fostering innovation and economic development. A vibrant entrepreneurial ecosystem can be a major source of employment and contributes to the competitiveness of one’s economy. Acknowledging the importance of entrepreneurship, policy makers become increasingly involved in creating entrepreneurship-friendly environments. However, identifying suitable concepts for entrepreneurship support requires a thorough understanding of entrepreneurs’ requirements and recent trends in the entrepreneurship ecosystem. This study identifies recent trends in entrepreneurship and applies entrepreneurial means to come up with novel concepts for the creation of a more entrepreneurial-friendly ecosystem in Bavaria. Trend Report Spring 2015 The Future of Education Education is undergoing radical changes. While education used to be mainly frontally held lectures, digital technologies today allow for a wide range of new possibilities. Given the impact of education on society and considering recent developments and open questions, the importance of shedding some light on the future of education becomes obvious. This can be done by addressing three key questions: What are recent developments and key trends that shape the future of education? What could the educational world look like in the future? What are new educational products and services that can be introduced in the future, both in a commercial or non-profit context? The three sections of this report address these questions.
Trend Seminar An entire CDTM class of students from interdisciplinary backgrounds conducts holistic trend research over seven week (full-time) related to a specific topic. An extensive trend analysis leads to the creation of four future scenarios as well as five innovative business models. You are looking for external input on digital trends and disruptive business models? Get in touch with us. How Trend Seminar Works Example Projects See all trendreports… Facts & Figures Contact Us Franz X. Waltenberger Testimonials Testimonials Andre HainzlmaierAudi Electronics Venture, Audi AG Andre Hainzlmaier Audi Electronics Venture, Audi AG “I was impressed by the creativity of the students and their enthusiasm for the project. […]Working with the students was extremely inspiring and also helped to step back and question the basic assumptions that are predominant in the industry. […] The work with the CDTM really showed the benefits of interdisciplinary and diversity to innovation. In order to come up with radically new lines of thought you have to create the kind of creative abrasion that is the basic idea behind the CDTM.” Martin BirknerSiemens AG Martin Birkner Siemens AG „The joint trend seminar […] has been a great success. We highly appreciated the motivation and professionalism of the students, something you cannot always expect at this level in such projects. […] Not just the results but also the discussions with the students have been very inspiring for us. […] Actually, we did not just use the results for defining R&D projects but also hired some of the students for internships and full-time employments.“
BRING IDEAS TO LIFE Managing Product Development (MPD) is a project-based course throughout twelve weeks. Six teams of CDTM students focus on designing and developing new products and services including problem analyses, understanding customer needs and prototyping innovative products and services. How MPD Works Example Projects Facts & Figures Contact Us Jose Adrian Vega Vermehren Testimonials Testimonials Sasha PaulBMW Sasha Paul BMW “We have really enjoyed the experience of working with such a talented team of the CDTM. We are proud to say, that we have never had so much fun while getting so many things done in such a short time. The final product is an ambitious outlook to the future. The heroic efforts of every single team member made this project a real success story.”
TACKLE BUSINESS PROBLEMS Entrepreneurship Laboratory (eLab) is a project-based course of twelve weeks. The student teams answer strategic business questions ranging from market entry strategy to a new pricing strategy for a SaaS product. As a project partner, this is your opportunity to receive innovative ideas and results tailored to your needs. How eLab Works Example Projects Facts & Figures Contact Us Elizaveta Felsche eLab+49 (0)176 97312166elab@cdtm.de Testimonials Testimonials Joachim SchonowskiDeutsche Telekom Joachim Schonowski Deutsche Telekom “The team developed an inspiring team spirit and organized themselves fully autonomously. They were quickly convinced from the project scope, worked extremely focused and integrated their thoughts and ideas. They developed an investor-proof business potential calculation and pitch presentation. We will use the results either for an internal project or a spin-off.” Lars StäbeMcKinsey & Company Lars Stäbe McKinsey & Company “Working with eLab teams is an amazing experience – the students are analytically razor sharp and know how to surprise with creative and sophisticated business ideas.”
TACKLE BUSINESS PROBLEMS Entrepreneurship Laboratory (eLab) is a project-based course of twelve weeks. The student teams answer strategic business questions ranging from market entry strategy to a new pricing strategy for a SaaS product. As a project partner, this is your opportunity to receive innovative ideas and results tailored to your needs. How eLab Works Example Projects Facts & Figures Contact Us Elizaveta Felsche eLab+49 (0)176 97312166elab@cdtm.de Testimonials Testimonials Joachim SchonowskiDeutsche Telekom Joachim Schonowski Deutsche Telekom “The team developed an inspiring team spirit and organized themselves fully autonomously. They were quickly convinced from the project scope, worked extremely focused and integrated their thoughts and ideas. They developed an investor-proof business potential calculation and pitch presentation. We will use the results either for an internal project or a spin-off.” Lars StäbeMcKinsey & Company Lars Stäbe McKinsey & Company “Working with eLab teams is an amazing experience – the students are analytically razor sharp and know how to surprise with creative and sophisticated business ideas.”
CREATIVE MINDS IN ACTION Elective courses build on highly innovative course formats, focusing on practical relevance and upcoming trends. Let highly motivated and interdisciplinary teams generate tangible outcomes within a short timeframe. How Electives & Hackathons work Every semester, the CDTM offers 4-5 elective courses to our highly motivated students. Just like our core courses, all our elective courses are conducted together with partners from the industry or research, to tackle their relevant problems. Elective courses are designed to complement the core courses by offering students the opportunity to deepen their knowledge in an area of their choice. The course format can either range from a one-week hackathon to several sessions spread across the semester or semester break. We are open to your suggestions and the topics you would like to bring to the Center! The courses are continuously adapted to changing technologies and requirements. Contact Us Carla Pregel Hoderlein Example Projects Autonomous Drones Center Farming Elective Social Entrepreneurship Elective
CREATIVE MINDS IN ACTION Elective courses build on highly innovative course formats, focusing on practical relevance and upcoming trends. Let highly motivated and interdisciplinary teams generate tangible outcomes within a short timeframe. How Electives & Hackathons work Every semester, the CDTM offers 4-5 elective courses to our highly motivated students. Just like our core courses, all our elective courses are conducted together with partners from the industry or research, to tackle their relevant problems. Elective courses are designed to complement the core courses by offering students the opportunity to deepen their knowledge in an area of their choice. The course format can either range from a one-week hackathon to several sessions spread across the semester or semester break. We are open to your suggestions and the topics you would like to bring to the Center! The courses are continuously adapted to changing technologies and requirements. Contact Us Carla Pregel Hoderlein Example Projects Autonomous Drones Center Farming Elective Social Entrepreneurship Elective
JOIN US! INTERESTED IN JOINING THE CDTM? Apply to the interdisciplinary add-on study program “Technology Management” to be one of the new students starting next semester. We are curious and happy to meet you and to maybe soon welcome you as a new member of CDTM. Find all the application requirements below. HOW TO APPLY HOW TO APPLY ADMISSION Every semester, approximately 25 students start their studies in „Technology Management“ at CDTM. All students go through a rigorous selection process consisting of an online written application and a personal interview. The two-stage interview process guarantees a high level of qualification of the students admitted to the program. DOCUMENTS During the application you will need the following: Before you start your application, please ensure you meet the formal requirements. DEADLINES Apply until May 30th 23:59 CET (fall term) for an intake in August and by November 30th 23:59 CET (spring term) for an intake in the following February. Applications open May 1st for the intake in August and November 1st for the intake in the following February. The upcoming Trend Seminar for the Class of Fall 2021 starts August 10th. More information can be found in our FAQs (“Program Structure”). Please submit your application via the online application system. Information events take place in November and May of every year. OPEN QUESTIONS? OPEN QUESTIONS? You are wondering how you can combine your studies with our Honors Degree in Technology Management? You have questions about the application process? You would like to meet current students and find out what it is like to study at the CDTM? Get to know us at our upcoming events or follow us on our social media channels to stay up to date! START TODAY! For your application please walk through the CDTM online application system and register as a new user.
TALENTS AT CDTM Students projects in the context of digital innovation We believe the best way to get to know one another is through work on innovative challenges. Every semester 10-15 industry partners are closely collaborating with our students on cutting-edge challenges as part of our innovation formats and convince one another with their know-how, philosophy and engagement. Find out more about our innovation formats. Get exposure within the CDTM community You would like to increase your presence at the CDTM and get in closer contact with our students and alumni? We offer you the following services to present your company or organization within the CDTM community and beyond: Please get in touch with us to get an individualized offers that suit your needs. Funding of PhD Positions PhD candidates conduct research as part of their dissertation project and are supervised by excellent CDTM Board Professors at either LMU or TUM. If you are interested in a comprehensive and holistic scientific overview of a topic of high relevance for your organization and industry funding a PhD position might be an interesting opportunity for you. Contact Us Carla Pregel Hoderlein Contact Us Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Subject Your Message
SHARE YOUR EXPERTISE Domain experts within the CDTM curriculum We believe that in an innovation context, knowledge shared by domain experts trumps the theoretical studying of textbooks. Thus, we invite domain experts to spread their insights to the next generation of innovators. For our course formats we are continuously looking for experts in the following fields: Speakers for CDTM Future Leadership Series The CDTM Future Leadership Series (FLS) is a speaker series about leadership topics. At each FLS, one highly successful leader from business, politics or society provides unique insights into their career, leadership philosophy in an intimate fireside chat. Past speakers include Roman Herzog (Former President of Germany), Jeff Burton (Co-Founder Electronic Arts), Joe Kaeser (CEO Siemens), Philipp Rösler (Managing Director of World Economic Forum) and many more. Do you know inspiring leaders that would like to share their story in a CDTM Future Leadership event? Let’s talk! Speakers for CDTM Inspire&Dine The CDTM Inspire&Dine is an open TED-talk like evening with three to four inspiring speakers and 300+ ambitious students and young professionals. Speakers come from diverse fields and share a passion for technology, innovation, entrepreneurship and extraordinary stories. In the past, we have hosted professional violinists, business leaders, neuroscientists and AI-experts, who inspired the audience with their talks. Do you know inspiring personalities or would like to share your story in one of the next CDTM Inspire&Dine events? Let’s talk! Upcoming Inspire&Dine Events Contact Us Carla Pregel Hoderlein Contact Us Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Subject Your Message
YOUR WAY TO CDTM Visitor Address Center for Digital Technology and Management Marsstr. 20-22 80335 Munich, Germany CDTM is located on the ground floor. PDF Directions – How to find us POSTAL ADDRESS Center for Digital Technology and Management Arcisstr. 21 80333 Munich, Germany Communication Phone: +49 89 289 – 28567 Fax: +49 89 289 – 28459 info@cdtm.de
APPLY FOR OUR SCHOLARSHIP! JOIN US! How the Scholarship Works We at CDTM believe that your personality and skills should be the reason for your admission, not your financial background. First and foremost we want to prevent that your financial circumstances keep you from CDTM. To lift the financial burden, we thus provide a need-based scholarship program, a commitment to economic diversity, that makes sure nothing stands in the way of your Honors Degree in Technology Management. Selected students receive a funding of up to 450 Euro per month for the duration of the courses Trend Research and Product Development (SS: February – July or FS: August – January). Find out more about the Curriculum. For open questions feel free to contact recruitment@cdtm.de! HOW TO APPLY HOW TO APPLY ADMISSION The scholarship program is a need-based funding provided by CDTM resources. In the application tool you can indicate via a checkbox that you want to apply for financial aid. Once admitted to the interviews, we will ask you to provide the selection-relevant information. DOCUMENTS The selection-relevant information includes the following: DEADLINES OPEN QUESTIONS? OPEN QUESTIONS? You are wondering how you can combine your studies with our Honors Degree in Technology Management? You have questions about the application process? You would like to meet current students and find out what it is like to study at CDTM? Get to know us at our upcoming events or follow us on our social media channels to stay up to date! START TODAY! For your application please walk through CDTM online application system and register as a new user. Scholarship sponsors: Thanks to our Alumni:
FAQ APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS PROGRAM STRUCTURE GENERAL QUESTIONS APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS Do you give feedback on denied applications? We understand that being denied admission can be a disappointment, and it is reasonable that you want to know the reasons behind the admission board’s decision. Therefore, as time allows, on request you can get the opportunity to get feedback from one of the interviewers. Please understand that the decision of the admission board is final. Due to time constraints, we cannot give feedback on written applications unfortunately. How many students attend the CDTM Technology Management Program? CDTM has approximately 25 students per class and one class per semester. Our alumni network counts over 900 members. How many people apply? How many are admitted? Of the over 300 applications per semester for the Technology Management program, 60 students are invited to a personal interview. Approximately 25 students of those invited to the personal interview are admitted to the program. When is the next application deadline? Apply until 30 May 23:59 CET (fall term) for an intake in August and by 30 November 23:59 CET (spring term) for an intake in the following February. Do I need to have completed a certain number of semesters to apply? Yes. To ensure that every student can contribute skills from his/her main studies to the program, we require that the student has completed his/her third semester before starting at the CDTM. We consider a semester completed at the end of the lecture period and before the Trend Seminar course starts in the semester break. Do I need to have work experience to apply? You should have at least 10 weeks of work or internship experience (in industry or at university). Students who already have some work experience, during which they applied the knowledge from their studies in practice generally get more out of the program and can better contribute to discussions and tasks. Can I apply although I am not available full-time during the Trend Seminar? No. Since it is a core course and attendance is mandatory for the seven-week period, you need to keep this time-period free. Please apply in the following semester if you cannot be present for the full seven weeks. For more information about the course dates, see ‘Program Structure’ below. Can I apply and, in case of admission, delay the start to the next semester? No. Please only apply for the semester in which you can start the program and attend the Trend Seminar. Admissions are only valid for the corresponding semester and will not get carried over to the next semester. Do I need to be enrolled in a university program to apply for CDTM? Yes. You have to be enrolled at either LMU or TUM (Diploma-, Bachelor- or Master-level study program) to apply for CDTM. I applied for a study program at LMU or TUM and am waiting for the response. Can I apply at the CDTM? Yes. If you are currently applying at LMU or TUM for a Diploma-, Bachelor- or Master-level study program, you are eligible to apply at CDTM. However, you have to present your acceptance letter and/or certificate of enrollment to the CDTM administration by the start of the new semester. Otherwise, we cannot enroll you in the CDTM add-on study program. Can I apply for the program even if I will finish my studies soon? Yes. As long as you can find the time to do the core courses in parallel to your studies or future employment, there is no formal requirement that prevents you from applying. However, you should be aware that the courses MPD and eLab usually require 1.5-2 days of work a week. Is there a minimum GPA required to apply for the program? While good grades and academic potential certainly play a role in the assessment, candidates can balance their grades with being active in other areas, such as volunteering or working experience. Does CDTM have rolling admissions? Are there advantages to applying early? CDTM has two application deadlines per year (30 May and 30 November). The online application tool is available some months before the next deadline. There is no competitive advantage to applying earlier. An application after the final deadline is not possible as the decision process is well underway. Do I need an English language certificate? No. There is no need for a language certificate for the application. However, the application is to be written in English and the whole program is in English. Therefore, good written and oral English skills are expected. We may also conduct part of the personal interviews in English to confirm these skills. Do you require recommendations? Within the CDTM application process recommendations (from past employers or your university) are not required, but you may bring them to the interview as supporting documents. Can I apply again if my application has not been successful before? Yes, you certainly may. If you feel like you have personally improved (e.g. after a semester abroad or after an interesting internship), you are always welcome to apply again. We recommend you to highlight what you have learned since your last application. Do I need to adjust my application, if I am applying for a second time? Yes, please include your personal improvements in your second application so we can see your progress since your first application. Do I need to be in Munich for the interview days? No. Due to the current pandemic situation all interviews are taking place virtually. Can you tell me my chances given my study background and work experience? It is unlikely that an admission committee member would be able to assess your chances for admission without first seeing a completed application. Please instead try to assess the overlap of your personal and professional activities with the core values of the CDTM. What are the general selection criteria and desired qualifications for admission? General Criteria We look for students whose personal characteristics suggest that they will make the most of the opportunities at CDTM, both in academic and non-academic areas. We also seek those whose presence will enhance the experience of other students. Therefore, we value characteristics such as motivation, involvement, interpersonal skills, entrepreneurial aptitude, leadership quality, creativity, analytical skills, and open mindedness. Desired Qualifications The admissions committee looks for excellence – applicants with high academic achievements, strong motivation, and leadership potential. High academic potential is normally reflected in excellent academic records. Motivation and leadership is usually shown in relevant experience, your essays, and recommendations. Formal Criteria Students have to be registered for a Diploma-, Bachelor- or Master-level studies program at LMU or TUM. Most of the CDTM students come from the fields of Computer Science, Electrical Engineering, and Management. Students of other related fields are also highly encouraged to apply. You should have completed (or are this term completing) your undergraduate studies (e.g. Vordiplom) and your Abitur (Abitur, A-Level, International Baccalaureate or High School equivalent) with above-average results. If you are in a Bachelor program (and do not get a Vordiplom) you need to have completed your third semester before starting at the CDTM. We consider a semester completed at the end of the lecture period and before the Trend Seminar course starts in the semester break. PROGRAM STRUCTURE Which courses does the CDTM offer? A list of courses offered at the CDTM is available on our curriculum page. In addition to the three core courses, varying electives are offered each semester. When does the program start / the Trend Seminar take place? The Trend Seminar is the first core course of the CDTM curriculum and takes place in the last 7 weeks of the semester break following your application. Attendance is mandatory during that time (small exceptions can be made if you e.g. need to leave for some hours to take an exam). If you already know that you are not available at that time, please kindly apply for the following semester. During the week before the Trend Seminar, a Kickoff evening will take place on Tuesday and the Kickoff Weekend from Thursday until Saturday. Please find the dates for the next semester below: Fall 2021: Can I pause the program for a certain amount of time? Yes. After you finish the Trend Seminar, you can take a break before MPD or eLab. After your break you can join the students of the subsequent class. However, you can only start eLab once you have finished MPD and you cannot take MPD and eLab in parallel. What is a Task Force? A Task Force consists of CDTM students and a member of the Management Team. They work together on certain topics, such as maintaining the IT infrastructure or organizing CDTM events. Every CDTM student is member of at least one Task Force. Which Task Forces exist at CDTM? What if I want to start a new Task Force? There are a variety of Task Forces at the CDTM. They organize events or invite and host speakers, maintain the IT infrastructure, organize the recruiting process or take care of our big Alumni network. If there is an area that interests you, but is not represented through a Task Force, we encourage you to start one. What is the teaching style like at CDTM? The CDTM employs a variety of teaching methods, including lectures, case studies, team projects, writings, problem sets, presentations, company visits, guest speakers, and other theoretical and applied teaching methods. What is the average class size? The core courses have approximately 25 students. Often, smaller teams of 4-5 people are formed for some part of the lecture. Elective courses typically have 10-20 students. GENERAL QUESTIONS Is Technology Management a Master’s Program? The CDTM does not offer a stand-alone master’s program. Rather you will be enrolled in an Honours Degree in Technology Management program which is part of the Elite Network of Bavaria. The program is pursued in parallel to your main studies. Therefore, you have to be enrolled in a regular university program at LMU or TUM in order to apply for CDTM. What kind of degree do CDTM Technology Management Program graduates receive? Upon completion of the degree requirements, candidates receive an Honours Degree in Technology Management issued by two of Germany’s leading universities, the Technical University Munich (TUM) and the Ludwig-Maximilians-University (LMU) and supported by the Elite Network of Bavaria. Is it possible to transfer credits to my main studies? As CDTM offers an additional Honours Degree complementary to (and not integrated in) your primary studies, credit transfer is restricted, yet possible in some cases. Is there a part-time program offered? No, CDTM does not offer any part-time programs. What are the requirements for completing the Technology Management Program? All degree candidates enrolled in the Technology Management Program complete a required core curriculum (27 credits) in addition to 6 credits of elective courses, 9 credits for a term abroad and 3 credits for their work in a Task Force. The program is tailored to be completed within 4 semesters, but can be extended if you would like to pause the program due to a semester abroad or internship. Do I have to learn or do computer programming? Even though you might find yourself working on projects involving cutting-edge technology during your time at CDTM, learning to program a computer is neither a requirement nor a necessity. All projects are designed to be highly interdisciplinary. How much time do I have to invest for the program? You will have to invest about 1.5-2 days a week for the program during the semester. For the first phase (Trend Seminar), i.e. during the semester break, it is a full-time program. Is it possible to work during the program? Yes, as long as you can be present during the compulsory lectures, it is up to you to coordinate your main university studies and job. Please keep in mind that the Trend Seminar requires you to be present for almost the whole day during its seven-week duration. In the semesters of MPD and eLab, classes usually meet for 1-2 meetings during the week, where attendance is required. Does taking part in the CDTM cost anything? No, the CDTM is completely free of charge. However, as we know that taking part in the CDTM requires some time and effort from the students, we provide a need-based scholarship. Please find more information about it on our Scholarship page.
About us Picus Capital is an early-stage technology investment firm with a long-term investment philosophy. We work together with daring technology companies to build successful, global companies challenging the status quo and shaping tomorrow. We want to become the closest partner of our portfolio companies by working together on key strategic decisions and operative challenges. News Picus Capital GmbH Karlstraße 12, 80333 Munich info@picuscap.com For press inquiries please contact katryna.nolan@picuscap.com Karlstraße 12, 80333 Munich, Germany Rosa-Luxemburg-Straße 14, 10178 Berlin, Germany 15 Rathbone Street, London W1T 1NB, United Kingdom 350 Fifth Avenue, Suite 4730, Empire State Building, New York, NY 10118, United States Gongxiao International Building, Floor 3, Chaoyang District, Beijing City, P.R. China We use cookies on our website. Some of them are essential, while others help us to improve this website and your experience. Accept all Save Preference & Close Individual Cookie Preferences Cookie Details Privacy Policy Imprint Here you will find an overview of all cookies used. You can give your consent to whole categories or display further information and select certain cookies. Accept all Save Preference & Close Back Essential cookies enable basic functions and are necessary for the proper function of the website. Show Cookie Information Hide Cookie Information Statistics cookies collect information anonymously. This information helps us to understand how our visitors use our website. Show Cookie Information Hide Cookie Information Privacy Policy Imprint
Prof. Dr. Dres. h.c. Arnold Picot † Chair for Information, Organization and ManagementMunich School of ManagementLudwig-Maximilians-Universität München * December 28th, 1944. † July 9th, 2017. Prof. Dr. Dres. h.c. Arnold Picot was one of the founding fathers of the CDTM who supported its vision and organisation from the beginning to his unexpected death on July 9, 2017. From 1988-2013 Prof. Picot has been holding the chair of the Institute for Information, Organization and Management at the Munich School of Management at the Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, Germany. With him, we lost a visionary with many research, professional and personal interests who always stood up for the CDTM and it’s bottom-up culture. In 2021 Dr. Ippen, publisher of the Munich Merkur donated four CDTM scholarships in the name of Prof. Arnold Picot. Additional information: https://www.iom.bwl.uni-muenchen.de/personen/leitung/picot/index.html https://www.sueddeutsche.de/wirtschaft/nachruf-bwl-professor-picot-gestorben-1.3587701 https://trauer.sueddeutsche.de/todesanzeige/arnold-picot https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arnold_Picot
JOIN US! INTERESTED IN JOINING THE CDTM? Apply to the interdisciplinary add-on study program “Technology Management” to be one of the new students starting next semester. We are curious and happy to meet you and to maybe soon welcome you as a new member of CDTM. Find all the application requirements below. HOW TO APPLY HOW TO APPLY ADMISSION Every semester, approximately 25 students start their studies in „Technology Management“ at CDTM. All students go through a rigorous selection process consisting of an online written application and a personal interview. The two-stage interview process guarantees a high level of qualification of the students admitted to the program. DOCUMENTS During the application you will need the following: Before you start your application, please ensure you meet the formal requirements. DEADLINES Apply until May 30th 23:59 CET (fall term) for an intake in August and by November 30th 23:59 CET (spring term) for an intake in the following February. Applications open May 1st for the intake in August and November 1st for the intake in the following February. The upcoming Trend Seminar for the Class of Fall 2021 starts August 10th. More information can be found in our FAQs (“Program Structure”). Please submit your application via the online application system. Information events take place in November and May of every year. OPEN QUESTIONS? OPEN QUESTIONS? You are wondering how you can combine your studies with our Honors Degree in Technology Management? You have questions about the application process? You would like to meet current students and find out what it is like to study at the CDTM? Get to know us at our upcoming events or follow us on our social media channels to stay up to date! START TODAY! For your application please walk through the CDTM online application system and register as a new user.
TALENTS AT CDTM Students projects in the context of digital innovation We believe the best way to get to know one another is through work on innovative challenges. Every semester 10-15 industry partners are closely collaborating with our students on cutting-edge challenges as part of our innovation formats and convince one another with their know-how, philosophy and engagement. Find out more about our innovation formats. Get exposure within the CDTM community You would like to increase your presence at the CDTM and get in closer contact with our students and alumni? We offer you the following services to present your company or organization within the CDTM community and beyond: Please get in touch with us to get an individualized offers that suit your needs. Funding of PhD Positions PhD candidates conduct research as part of their dissertation project and are supervised by excellent CDTM Board Professors at either LMU or TUM. If you are interested in a comprehensive and holistic scientific overview of a topic of high relevance for your organization and industry funding a PhD position might be an interesting opportunity for you. Contact Us Carla Pregel Hoderlein Contact Us Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Subject Your Message
SHARE YOUR EXPERTISE Domain experts within the CDTM curriculum We believe that in an innovation context, knowledge shared by domain experts trumps the theoretical studying of textbooks. Thus, we invite domain experts to spread their insights to the next generation of innovators. For our course formats we are continuously looking for experts in the following fields: Speakers for CDTM Future Leadership Series The CDTM Future Leadership Series (FLS) is a speaker series about leadership topics. At each FLS, one highly successful leader from business, politics or society provides unique insights into their career, leadership philosophy in an intimate fireside chat. Past speakers include Roman Herzog (Former President of Germany), Jeff Burton (Co-Founder Electronic Arts), Joe Kaeser (CEO Siemens), Philipp Rösler (Managing Director of World Economic Forum) and many more. Do you know inspiring leaders that would like to share their story in a CDTM Future Leadership event? Let’s talk! Speakers for CDTM Inspire&Dine The CDTM Inspire&Dine is an open TED-talk like evening with three to four inspiring speakers and 300+ ambitious students and young professionals. Speakers come from diverse fields and share a passion for technology, innovation, entrepreneurship and extraordinary stories. In the past, we have hosted professional violinists, business leaders, neuroscientists and AI-experts, who inspired the audience with their talks. Do you know inspiring personalities or would like to share your story in one of the next CDTM Inspire&Dine events? Let’s talk! Upcoming Inspire&Dine Events Contact Us Carla Pregel Hoderlein Contact Us Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Subject Your Message
YOUR WAY TO CDTM Visitor Address Center for Digital Technology and Management Marsstr. 20-22 80335 Munich, Germany CDTM is located on the ground floor. PDF Directions – How to find us POSTAL ADDRESS Center for Digital Technology and Management Arcisstr. 21 80333 Munich, Germany Communication Phone: +49 89 289 – 28567 Fax: +49 89 289 – 28459 info@cdtm.de
Alumni Stories CDTM Alumni go on to follow a variety of different paths: from joining the academic world, becoming a consultant, working for a corporate to founding their own or joining a startup. Veronika Schweighart Alexis Gamboa2021-02-02T16:47:39+01:00Position: Co-Founder & COO of Climedo Health| Anna Schwarz Alexis Gamboa2020-10-27T17:35:11+01:00Position: Consultant at The Boston Consulting Group (BCG)| Veronika Riederle Alexis Gamboa2020-10-27T17:30:18+01:00Position: Co-founder & CEO of Demodesk| Hanno Renner Nikolai Kraler2019-03-13T17:13:56+01:00Position: CEO Personio| Anselm Bauer, Basti Schuon, Benni Günther & Max-Josef Meier Felix Krauth2018-12-07T15:24:53+01:00Position: Founders Alasco (Anselm, Basti, Benni) & Entrepreneur (Max), previously founders Stylight, founded 2008 & exited 2016| Gabriel Matuschka Felix Krauth2018-12-06T21:04:57+01:00Position: Founding partner, Fly Ventures|
Veronika Schweighart Together with Dragan Mileski and Sascha Ritz (both class of fall 2013), I co-founded Climedo Health in 2017, a B2B SaaS company with the mission to improve clinical data capture around the safety and performance of medical devices. Next to my passion for all things digital, health and sports, I'm on a personal mission to foster diversity in high-tech entrepreneurship. My goal had long been to found a startup, and it was the CDTM which gave me the final spark of inspiration, the necessary tools and especially the right people to do so. During my time as an active student, the CDTM's slogan was "the home for your ideas", and I think it still describes it very nicely.
Anna Schwarz CDTM has been formative and inspiring at the same time. After some years in its Start-up environment, I however wanted to think about problems not only entrepreneurially, but also systemically. My CDTM learnings and insights actually formed the heart of my application essay to Harvard, where I went on to study Public Policy. I have now shifted to working with governments and large-scale energy players, but I am still benefitting from the pragmatism, unwavering commitment and invigorating creativity that was installed in us with and by the CDTM community.
Veronika Riederle Together with CDTM Alumnus Alex Popp, Veronika founded Demodesk in 2017. They've built a revolutionary screen sharing and video conferencing platform with integrated real-time sales assistance. Demodesk was part of Y Combinator and has raised multiple rounds of funding. Before founding Demodesk, she was a project leader at Bain & Company, consulted Fortune 500 companies on their sales and investment strategy for 5 years and managed multiple international teams. She studied business and engineering at the TU Munich and the Columbia University of New York and has been working in several German early-stage startups alongside.
Hanno Renner Outdated HR programs that cost all employees time and effort? When it comes to CDTM alumni Hanno Renner, startups and medium-sized companies in Germany will soon be equipped with their new software called Personio.
Anselm Bauer, Basti Schuon, Benni Günther & Max-Josef Meier During MPD at CDTM, Anselm and Max worked on what later turned into Stylight. After being abroad to the US via the CDTM, we (Anselm, Basti, Benni, Max) realized that we’d like to start a company together and picked up the idea which developed during MPD. We modeled our cross-functional teams at Stylight after teams at the CDTM and hired many fellow CDTM alumni into Stylight.
About Felix Krauth
Gabriel Matuschka CDTM has had profound impact on my life - in so many ways. Among others, I met my Fly Ventures co-partner Stephan Seyboth and some other of my best friends there. We have also recruited two of Associates from CDTM. So Fly truly is a very CDTM driven venture capital firm. Next to people, CDTM also changed the way I think, operate and was the one and only academic home of my love for technology - still a driving force in my daily life as a tech investor.
JOIN US! INTERESTED IN JOINING THE CDTM? Apply to the interdisciplinary add-on study program “Technology Management” to be one of the new students starting next semester. We are curious and happy to meet you and to maybe soon welcome you as a new member of CDTM. Find all the application requirements below. HOW TO APPLY HOW TO APPLY ADMISSION Every semester, approximately 25 students start their studies in „Technology Management“ at CDTM. All students go through a rigorous selection process consisting of an online written application and a personal interview. The two-stage interview process guarantees a high level of qualification of the students admitted to the program. DOCUMENTS During the application you will need the following: Before you start your application, please ensure you meet the formal requirements. DEADLINES Apply until May 30th 23:59 CET (fall term) for an intake in August and by November 30th 23:59 CET (spring term) for an intake in the following February. Applications open May 1st for the intake in August and November 1st for the intake in the following February. The upcoming Trend Seminar for the Class of Fall 2021 starts August 10th. More information can be found in our FAQs (“Program Structure”). Please submit your application via the online application system. Information events take place in November and May of every year. OPEN QUESTIONS? OPEN QUESTIONS? You are wondering how you can combine your studies with our Honors Degree in Technology Management? You have questions about the application process? You would like to meet current students and find out what it is like to study at the CDTM? Get to know us at our upcoming events or follow us on our social media channels to stay up to date! START TODAY! For your application please walk through the CDTM online application system and register as a new user.
TALENTS AT CDTM Students projects in the context of digital innovation We believe the best way to get to know one another is through work on innovative challenges. Every semester 10-15 industry partners are closely collaborating with our students on cutting-edge challenges as part of our innovation formats and convince one another with their know-how, philosophy and engagement. Find out more about our innovation formats. Get exposure within the CDTM community You would like to increase your presence at the CDTM and get in closer contact with our students and alumni? We offer you the following services to present your company or organization within the CDTM community and beyond: Please get in touch with us to get an individualized offers that suit your needs. Funding of PhD Positions PhD candidates conduct research as part of their dissertation project and are supervised by excellent CDTM Board Professors at either LMU or TUM. If you are interested in a comprehensive and holistic scientific overview of a topic of high relevance for your organization and industry funding a PhD position might be an interesting opportunity for you. Contact Us Carla Pregel Hoderlein Contact Us Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Subject Your Message
SHARE YOUR EXPERTISE Domain experts within the CDTM curriculum We believe that in an innovation context, knowledge shared by domain experts trumps the theoretical studying of textbooks. Thus, we invite domain experts to spread their insights to the next generation of innovators. For our course formats we are continuously looking for experts in the following fields: Speakers for CDTM Future Leadership Series The CDTM Future Leadership Series (FLS) is a speaker series about leadership topics. At each FLS, one highly successful leader from business, politics or society provides unique insights into their career, leadership philosophy in an intimate fireside chat. Past speakers include Roman Herzog (Former President of Germany), Jeff Burton (Co-Founder Electronic Arts), Joe Kaeser (CEO Siemens), Philipp Rösler (Managing Director of World Economic Forum) and many more. Do you know inspiring leaders that would like to share their story in a CDTM Future Leadership event? Let’s talk! Speakers for CDTM Inspire&Dine The CDTM Inspire&Dine is an open TED-talk like evening with three to four inspiring speakers and 300+ ambitious students and young professionals. Speakers come from diverse fields and share a passion for technology, innovation, entrepreneurship and extraordinary stories. In the past, we have hosted professional violinists, business leaders, neuroscientists and AI-experts, who inspired the audience with their talks. Do you know inspiring personalities or would like to share your story in one of the next CDTM Inspire&Dine events? Let’s talk! Upcoming Inspire&Dine Events Contact Us Carla Pregel Hoderlein Contact Us Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Subject Your Message
YOUR WAY TO CDTM Visitor Address Center for Digital Technology and Management Marsstr. 20-22 80335 Munich, Germany CDTM is located on the ground floor. PDF Directions – How to find us POSTAL ADDRESS Center for Digital Technology and Management Arcisstr. 21 80333 Munich, Germany Communication Phone: +49 89 289 – 28567 Fax: +49 89 289 – 28459 info@cdtm.de
The CDTM enables its students to experience new cultures and build a global network The CDTM has close partnerships with globally leading universities and research institutions to provide students with the opportunity of spending a semester abroad during the CDTM program. The CDTM also supports students in organizing their own stay abroad and forging new partnerships by making use of the network of CDTM’s Board of Directors. Additionally, the CDTM advises students on scholarships in order to cover the costs of their stay abroad. THE CDTM NETWORK FOSTERS A STRONG RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN FORMER AND ACTIVE STUDENTS The CDTM network provides access to a multitude of opportunities: meet your future co-founder, mentor, find an internship or job and get into personal contact with a wide range of startups, small and medium sized companies, and corporates of the Munich ecosystem and beyond. CAREER BUILDING CDTM students strive to make a difference in the world – the CDTM helps them to find their best way to do this. ACADEMIC COUNSELLING Through its small class sizes, the CDTM can offer individual councelling on academic as well as project-specific topics. For this, every student has a buddy in the Management Team and is matched with a member of the CDTM Board of Directors. ALUMNI MENTORING With an alumni network of more than 700 and growing every semester, the CDTM passes on the knowledge of the community through a mentoring program. Here, students can receive advice and challenging questions concerning their future plans from CDTM alumni. PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT The CDTM regularly invites experts to hold seminars on personal and career development as well as topics concerned with effective leadership. Renowned coaches from the industry share their expertise and work with small groups of CDTM students on these topics.
TERM ABROAD TALENTS AT CDTM An array of exchange programs with internationally leading universities The CDTM curriculum includes one term abroad during the program (optional for students that have been abroad for more than 4 months). CDTM complements students’ international ambitions by developing an array of exchange programs with internationally leading universities. Financial constraints shouldn’t prevent anyone from going abroad – that’s why CDTM helps its students to find suitable scholarships and provides backup funding when needed. Currently, CDTM maintains exchange programs with the following institutions: Experience Another Culture of Working Currently, CDTM supports its students in finding internship placement at internationally renowned companies of all industries. A wide network of cooperation partners, guest lecturers and alumni helps in evaluating what internship is the best fit for each individual student. Offers by partners are regularly posted via CDTM information channels. CDTM is in the process of setting up a Global Internship Program. CDTM students will have access to a database, searchable by location, industry, and function. It is our mission to be able to provide every student with adequate placements during her or his stay at CDTM Examples from Past CDTM Global Internship Program
JOIN US! INTERESTED IN JOINING THE CDTM? Apply to the interdisciplinary add-on study program “Technology Management” to be one of the new students starting next semester. We are curious and happy to meet you and to maybe soon welcome you as a new member of CDTM. Find all the application requirements below. HOW TO APPLY HOW TO APPLY ADMISSION Every semester, approximately 25 students start their studies in „Technology Management“ at CDTM. All students go through a rigorous selection process consisting of an online written application and a personal interview. The two-stage interview process guarantees a high level of qualification of the students admitted to the program. DOCUMENTS During the application you will need the following: Before you start your application, please ensure you meet the formal requirements. DEADLINES Apply until May 30th 23:59 CET (fall term) for an intake in August and by November 30th 23:59 CET (spring term) for an intake in the following February. Applications open May 1st for the intake in August and November 1st for the intake in the following February. The upcoming Trend Seminar for the Class of Fall 2021 starts August 10th. More information can be found in our FAQs (“Program Structure”). Please submit your application via the online application system. Information events take place in November and May of every year. OPEN QUESTIONS? OPEN QUESTIONS? You are wondering how you can combine your studies with our Honors Degree in Technology Management? You have questions about the application process? You would like to meet current students and find out what it is like to study at the CDTM? Get to know us at our upcoming events or follow us on our social media channels to stay up to date! START TODAY! For your application please walk through the CDTM online application system and register as a new user.
TALENTS AT CDTM Students projects in the context of digital innovation We believe the best way to get to know one another is through work on innovative challenges. Every semester 10-15 industry partners are closely collaborating with our students on cutting-edge challenges as part of our innovation formats and convince one another with their know-how, philosophy and engagement. Find out more about our innovation formats. Get exposure within the CDTM community You would like to increase your presence at the CDTM and get in closer contact with our students and alumni? We offer you the following services to present your company or organization within the CDTM community and beyond: Please get in touch with us to get an individualized offers that suit your needs. Funding of PhD Positions PhD candidates conduct research as part of their dissertation project and are supervised by excellent CDTM Board Professors at either LMU or TUM. If you are interested in a comprehensive and holistic scientific overview of a topic of high relevance for your organization and industry funding a PhD position might be an interesting opportunity for you. Contact Us Carla Pregel Hoderlein Contact Us Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Subject Your Message
SHARE YOUR EXPERTISE Domain experts within the CDTM curriculum We believe that in an innovation context, knowledge shared by domain experts trumps the theoretical studying of textbooks. Thus, we invite domain experts to spread their insights to the next generation of innovators. For our course formats we are continuously looking for experts in the following fields: Speakers for CDTM Future Leadership Series The CDTM Future Leadership Series (FLS) is a speaker series about leadership topics. At each FLS, one highly successful leader from business, politics or society provides unique insights into their career, leadership philosophy in an intimate fireside chat. Past speakers include Roman Herzog (Former President of Germany), Jeff Burton (Co-Founder Electronic Arts), Joe Kaeser (CEO Siemens), Philipp Rösler (Managing Director of World Economic Forum) and many more. Do you know inspiring leaders that would like to share their story in a CDTM Future Leadership event? Let’s talk! Speakers for CDTM Inspire&Dine The CDTM Inspire&Dine is an open TED-talk like evening with three to four inspiring speakers and 300+ ambitious students and young professionals. Speakers come from diverse fields and share a passion for technology, innovation, entrepreneurship and extraordinary stories. In the past, we have hosted professional violinists, business leaders, neuroscientists and AI-experts, who inspired the audience with their talks. Do you know inspiring personalities or would like to share your story in one of the next CDTM Inspire&Dine events? Let’s talk! Upcoming Inspire&Dine Events Contact Us Carla Pregel Hoderlein Contact Us Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Subject Your Message
YOUR WAY TO CDTM Visitor Address Center for Digital Technology and Management Marsstr. 20-22 80335 Munich, Germany CDTM is located on the ground floor. PDF Directions – How to find us POSTAL ADDRESS Center for Digital Technology and Management Arcisstr. 21 80333 Munich, Germany Communication Phone: +49 89 289 – 28567 Fax: +49 89 289 – 28459 info@cdtm.de
FAQ APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS PROGRAM STRUCTURE GENERAL QUESTIONS APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS Do you give feedback on denied applications? We understand that being denied admission can be a disappointment, and it is reasonable that you want to know the reasons behind the admission board’s decision. Therefore, as time allows, on request you can get the opportunity to get feedback from one of the interviewers. Please understand that the decision of the admission board is final. Due to time constraints, we cannot give feedback on written applications unfortunately. How many students attend the CDTM Technology Management Program? CDTM has approximately 25 students per class and one class per semester. Our alumni network counts over 900 members. How many people apply? How many are admitted? Of the over 300 applications per semester for the Technology Management program, 60 students are invited to a personal interview. Approximately 25 students of those invited to the personal interview are admitted to the program. When is the next application deadline? Apply until 30 May 23:59 CET (fall term) for an intake in August and by 30 November 23:59 CET (spring term) for an intake in the following February. Do I need to have completed a certain number of semesters to apply? Yes. To ensure that every student can contribute skills from his/her main studies to the program, we require that the student has completed his/her third semester before starting at the CDTM. We consider a semester completed at the end of the lecture period and before the Trend Seminar course starts in the semester break. Do I need to have work experience to apply? You should have at least 10 weeks of work or internship experience (in industry or at university). Students who already have some work experience, during which they applied the knowledge from their studies in practice generally get more out of the program and can better contribute to discussions and tasks. Can I apply although I am not available full-time during the Trend Seminar? No. Since it is a core course and attendance is mandatory for the seven-week period, you need to keep this time-period free. Please apply in the following semester if you cannot be present for the full seven weeks. For more information about the course dates, see ‘Program Structure’ below. Can I apply and, in case of admission, delay the start to the next semester? No. Please only apply for the semester in which you can start the program and attend the Trend Seminar. Admissions are only valid for the corresponding semester and will not get carried over to the next semester. Do I need to be enrolled in a university program to apply for CDTM? Yes. You have to be enrolled at either LMU or TUM (Diploma-, Bachelor- or Master-level study program) to apply for CDTM. I applied for a study program at LMU or TUM and am waiting for the response. Can I apply at the CDTM? Yes. If you are currently applying at LMU or TUM for a Diploma-, Bachelor- or Master-level study program, you are eligible to apply at CDTM. However, you have to present your acceptance letter and/or certificate of enrollment to the CDTM administration by the start of the new semester. Otherwise, we cannot enroll you in the CDTM add-on study program. Can I apply for the program even if I will finish my studies soon? Yes. As long as you can find the time to do the core courses in parallel to your studies or future employment, there is no formal requirement that prevents you from applying. However, you should be aware that the courses MPD and eLab usually require 1.5-2 days of work a week. Is there a minimum GPA required to apply for the program? While good grades and academic potential certainly play a role in the assessment, candidates can balance their grades with being active in other areas, such as volunteering or working experience. Does CDTM have rolling admissions? Are there advantages to applying early? CDTM has two application deadlines per year (30 May and 30 November). The online application tool is available some months before the next deadline. There is no competitive advantage to applying earlier. An application after the final deadline is not possible as the decision process is well underway. Do I need an English language certificate? No. There is no need for a language certificate for the application. However, the application is to be written in English and the whole program is in English. Therefore, good written and oral English skills are expected. We may also conduct part of the personal interviews in English to confirm these skills. Do you require recommendations? Within the CDTM application process recommendations (from past employers or your university) are not required, but you may bring them to the interview as supporting documents. Can I apply again if my application has not been successful before? Yes, you certainly may. If you feel like you have personally improved (e.g. after a semester abroad or after an interesting internship), you are always welcome to apply again. We recommend you to highlight what you have learned since your last application. Do I need to adjust my application, if I am applying for a second time? Yes, please include your personal improvements in your second application so we can see your progress since your first application. Do I need to be in Munich for the interview days? No. Due to the current pandemic situation all interviews are taking place virtually. Can you tell me my chances given my study background and work experience? It is unlikely that an admission committee member would be able to assess your chances for admission without first seeing a completed application. Please instead try to assess the overlap of your personal and professional activities with the core values of the CDTM. What are the general selection criteria and desired qualifications for admission? General Criteria We look for students whose personal characteristics suggest that they will make the most of the opportunities at CDTM, both in academic and non-academic areas. We also seek those whose presence will enhance the experience of other students. Therefore, we value characteristics such as motivation, involvement, interpersonal skills, entrepreneurial aptitude, leadership quality, creativity, analytical skills, and open mindedness. Desired Qualifications The admissions committee looks for excellence – applicants with high academic achievements, strong motivation, and leadership potential. High academic potential is normally reflected in excellent academic records. Motivation and leadership is usually shown in relevant experience, your essays, and recommendations. Formal Criteria Students have to be registered for a Diploma-, Bachelor- or Master-level studies program at LMU or TUM. Most of the CDTM students come from the fields of Computer Science, Electrical Engineering, and Management. Students of other related fields are also highly encouraged to apply. You should have completed (or are this term completing) your undergraduate studies (e.g. Vordiplom) and your Abitur (Abitur, A-Level, International Baccalaureate or High School equivalent) with above-average results. If you are in a Bachelor program (and do not get a Vordiplom) you need to have completed your third semester before starting at the CDTM. We consider a semester completed at the end of the lecture period and before the Trend Seminar course starts in the semester break. PROGRAM STRUCTURE Which courses does the CDTM offer? A list of courses offered at the CDTM is available on our curriculum page. In addition to the three core courses, varying electives are offered each semester. When does the program start / the Trend Seminar take place? The Trend Seminar is the first core course of the CDTM curriculum and takes place in the last 7 weeks of the semester break following your application. Attendance is mandatory during that time (small exceptions can be made if you e.g. need to leave for some hours to take an exam). If you already know that you are not available at that time, please kindly apply for the following semester. During the week before the Trend Seminar, a Kickoff evening will take place on Tuesday and the Kickoff Weekend from Thursday until Saturday. Please find the dates for the next semester below: Fall 2021: Can I pause the program for a certain amount of time? Yes. After you finish the Trend Seminar, you can take a break before MPD or eLab. After your break you can join the students of the subsequent class. However, you can only start eLab once you have finished MPD and you cannot take MPD and eLab in parallel. What is a Task Force? A Task Force consists of CDTM students and a member of the Management Team. They work together on certain topics, such as maintaining the IT infrastructure or organizing CDTM events. Every CDTM student is member of at least one Task Force. Which Task Forces exist at CDTM? What if I want to start a new Task Force? There are a variety of Task Forces at the CDTM. They organize events or invite and host speakers, maintain the IT infrastructure, organize the recruiting process or take care of our big Alumni network. If there is an area that interests you, but is not represented through a Task Force, we encourage you to start one. What is the teaching style like at CDTM? The CDTM employs a variety of teaching methods, including lectures, case studies, team projects, writings, problem sets, presentations, company visits, guest speakers, and other theoretical and applied teaching methods. What is the average class size? The core courses have approximately 25 students. Often, smaller teams of 4-5 people are formed for some part of the lecture. Elective courses typically have 10-20 students. GENERAL QUESTIONS Is Technology Management a Master’s Program? The CDTM does not offer a stand-alone master’s program. Rather you will be enrolled in an Honours Degree in Technology Management program which is part of the Elite Network of Bavaria. The program is pursued in parallel to your main studies. Therefore, you have to be enrolled in a regular university program at LMU or TUM in order to apply for CDTM. What kind of degree do CDTM Technology Management Program graduates receive? Upon completion of the degree requirements, candidates receive an Honours Degree in Technology Management issued by two of Germany’s leading universities, the Technical University Munich (TUM) and the Ludwig-Maximilians-University (LMU) and supported by the Elite Network of Bavaria. Is it possible to transfer credits to my main studies? As CDTM offers an additional Honours Degree complementary to (and not integrated in) your primary studies, credit transfer is restricted, yet possible in some cases. Is there a part-time program offered? No, CDTM does not offer any part-time programs. What are the requirements for completing the Technology Management Program? All degree candidates enrolled in the Technology Management Program complete a required core curriculum (27 credits) in addition to 6 credits of elective courses, 9 credits for a term abroad and 3 credits for their work in a Task Force. The program is tailored to be completed within 4 semesters, but can be extended if you would like to pause the program due to a semester abroad or internship. Do I have to learn or do computer programming? Even though you might find yourself working on projects involving cutting-edge technology during your time at CDTM, learning to program a computer is neither a requirement nor a necessity. All projects are designed to be highly interdisciplinary. How much time do I have to invest for the program? You will have to invest about 1.5-2 days a week for the program during the semester. For the first phase (Trend Seminar), i.e. during the semester break, it is a full-time program. Is it possible to work during the program? Yes, as long as you can be present during the compulsory lectures, it is up to you to coordinate your main university studies and job. Please keep in mind that the Trend Seminar requires you to be present for almost the whole day during its seven-week duration. In the semesters of MPD and eLab, classes usually meet for 1-2 meetings during the week, where attendance is required. Does taking part in the CDTM cost anything? No, the CDTM is completely free of charge. However, as we know that taking part in the CDTM requires some time and effort from the students, we provide a need-based scholarship. Please find more information about it on our Scholarship page.
JOIN US! INTERESTED IN JOINING THE CDTM? Apply to the interdisciplinary add-on study program “Technology Management” to be one of the new students starting next semester. We are curious and happy to meet you and to maybe soon welcome you as a new member of CDTM. Find all the application requirements below. HOW TO APPLY HOW TO APPLY ADMISSION Every semester, approximately 25 students start their studies in „Technology Management“ at CDTM. All students go through a rigorous selection process consisting of an online written application and a personal interview. The two-stage interview process guarantees a high level of qualification of the students admitted to the program. DOCUMENTS During the application you will need the following: Before you start your application, please ensure you meet the formal requirements. DEADLINES Apply until May 30th 23:59 CET (fall term) for an intake in August and by November 30th 23:59 CET (spring term) for an intake in the following February. Applications open May 1st for the intake in August and November 1st for the intake in the following February. The upcoming Trend Seminar for the Class of Fall 2021 starts August 10th. More information can be found in our FAQs (“Program Structure”). Please submit your application via the online application system. Information events take place in November and May of every year. OPEN QUESTIONS? OPEN QUESTIONS? You are wondering how you can combine your studies with our Honors Degree in Technology Management? You have questions about the application process? You would like to meet current students and find out what it is like to study at the CDTM? Get to know us at our upcoming events or follow us on our social media channels to stay up to date! START TODAY! For your application please walk through the CDTM online application system and register as a new user.
TALENTS AT CDTM Students projects in the context of digital innovation We believe the best way to get to know one another is through work on innovative challenges. Every semester 10-15 industry partners are closely collaborating with our students on cutting-edge challenges as part of our innovation formats and convince one another with their know-how, philosophy and engagement. Find out more about our innovation formats. Get exposure within the CDTM community You would like to increase your presence at the CDTM and get in closer contact with our students and alumni? We offer you the following services to present your company or organization within the CDTM community and beyond: Please get in touch with us to get an individualized offers that suit your needs. Funding of PhD Positions PhD candidates conduct research as part of their dissertation project and are supervised by excellent CDTM Board Professors at either LMU or TUM. If you are interested in a comprehensive and holistic scientific overview of a topic of high relevance for your organization and industry funding a PhD position might be an interesting opportunity for you. Contact Us Carla Pregel Hoderlein Contact Us Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Subject Your Message
SHARE YOUR EXPERTISE Domain experts within the CDTM curriculum We believe that in an innovation context, knowledge shared by domain experts trumps the theoretical studying of textbooks. Thus, we invite domain experts to spread their insights to the next generation of innovators. For our course formats we are continuously looking for experts in the following fields: Speakers for CDTM Future Leadership Series The CDTM Future Leadership Series (FLS) is a speaker series about leadership topics. At each FLS, one highly successful leader from business, politics or society provides unique insights into their career, leadership philosophy in an intimate fireside chat. Past speakers include Roman Herzog (Former President of Germany), Jeff Burton (Co-Founder Electronic Arts), Joe Kaeser (CEO Siemens), Philipp Rösler (Managing Director of World Economic Forum) and many more. Do you know inspiring leaders that would like to share their story in a CDTM Future Leadership event? Let’s talk! Speakers for CDTM Inspire&Dine The CDTM Inspire&Dine is an open TED-talk like evening with three to four inspiring speakers and 300+ ambitious students and young professionals. Speakers come from diverse fields and share a passion for technology, innovation, entrepreneurship and extraordinary stories. In the past, we have hosted professional violinists, business leaders, neuroscientists and AI-experts, who inspired the audience with their talks. Do you know inspiring personalities or would like to share your story in one of the next CDTM Inspire&Dine events? Let’s talk! Upcoming Inspire&Dine Events Contact Us Carla Pregel Hoderlein Contact Us Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Subject Your Message
YOUR WAY TO CDTM Visitor Address Center for Digital Technology and Management Marsstr. 20-22 80335 Munich, Germany CDTM is located on the ground floor. PDF Directions – How to find us POSTAL ADDRESS Center for Digital Technology and Management Arcisstr. 21 80333 Munich, Germany Communication Phone: +49 89 289 – 28567 Fax: +49 89 289 – 28459 info@cdtm.de
BECOME A PARTNER WE MAINTAIN CLOSE RELATIONSHIPS TO OUR INDUSTRY PARTNERS WE MAINTAIN CLOSE RELATIONSHIPS TO OUR INDUSTRY PARTNERS The Center for Digital Technology and Management (CDTM) is a joint research and educational institution of the Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München (LMU) and Technische Universität München (TUM), and member of the Elite Network of Bavaria (ENB). Our students and doctoral researchers work at the forefront of the digital revolution and apply their skills to become innovators of tomorrow and responsible leaders. At the core, they solve real-world problems with visionary partners from academia and industry and explore new ideas. A SELECTION OF OUR PARTNERS A SELECTION OF OUR PARTNERS Innovation & Research Innovation & Research Collaborate on innovation and entrepreneurship projects with motivated CDTM students and researchers. Become a Lecturer Become a Lecturer CDTM’s different formats always welcome domain experts and inspiring speakers to share their experience with our students and the community. Join the Ecosystem Join the Ecosystem Within 20 years, the CDTM has built a thriving ecosystem of students, successful entrepreneurs and long-established companies. Access the Talent Access the Talent The CDTM offers an exceptional pool of motivated digital natives that strive to shape the world of tomorrow together with you.
We use cookies essential for this site to function well. Please click "Accept" to help us improve its usefulness with additional cookies. Learn about our use of cookies, and collaboration with select social media and trusted analytics partners hereLearn more about cookies, Opens in new tab. Industries Advanced Electronics Aerospace & Defense Agriculture Automotive & Assembly Chemicals Consumer Packaged Goods Electric Power & Natural Gas Engineering, Construction & Building Materials Financial Services Healthcare Systems & Services Conference Life Sciences Metals & Mining Oil & Gas Paper, Forest Products & Packaging Private Equity & Principal Investors Public & Social Sector Real Estate Retail Semiconductors Technology, Media & Telecommunications Travel, Logistics & Infrastructure Functions Accelerate Digital M&A Marketing & Sales Operations Organization Risk & Resilience Strategy & Corporate Finance Sustainability Transformation Featured People create and sustain change. Unleash their potential. Digital upends old models. Reinvent your business. Most transformations fail. Flip the odds. Featured Insights TRENDING TOPICS Future of Asia Featured Practical resources to help leaders navigate to the next normal: guides, tools, checklists, interviews and more. Our mission is to help leaders in multiple sectors develop a deeper understanding of the global economy. Our flagship business publication has been defining and informing the senior-management agenda since 1964. Careers About Us Diversity Featured Practical resources to help leaders navigate to the next normal: guides, tools, checklists, interviews and more Learn what it means for you, and meet the people who create it Inspire, empower, and sustain action that leads to the economic development of Black communities across the globe Deutschland Branchen Funktionen McKinsey Deutschland Aktuelles COVID-19 lässt Zahl der Auslandsstudierenden einbrechen, doch Hochschullehre wird digitaler und internationaler Neues Rekordjahr für Investitionen in Quantentechnologien McKinsey: Deutschland kann bis 2045 Nullemissionsziel kostenneutral erreichen Diversity Wins Podcast McKinsey: Drei Viertel der Neuwagen in Europa fahren 2030 elektrisch Energiewende: Positive Corona-Effekte wirken noch nach – aber nicht mehr lange Featured COVID-19: Antworten auf die Krise Karriere Ihre Möglichkeiten bei McKinsey Warum haben so viele erfolgreiche Konzernlenker, Gründer und NGO-Manager McKinsey im Lebenslauf? Finden Sie heraus, ob McKinsey auch für Ihre Karriere den entscheidenden Unterschied machen kann. Zum Karriereportal Über McKinsey Wir unterstützen Unternehmen und Institutionen aus dem privaten, öffentlichen und sozialen Sektor bei ihren wichtigsten Veränderungen – in partnerschaftlicher und enger Zusammenarbeit. Erfahren Sie, was McKinsey als Firma auszeichnet. Gesellschaft Nachhaltigkeit Werte Geschichte Standorte in Deutschland In Deutschland und Österreich hat McKinsey Büros in Berlin, Düsseldorf, Frankfurt am Main, Hamburg, Köln, München, Stuttgart und Wien. McKinsey in Österreich Gender-Hinweis McKinsey lebt und fördert Vielfalt und Chancengleichheit unabhängig von Alter, kultureller Herkunft, Handicap, sexueller Orientierung, Geschlecht und Geschlechtsidentität. Wenn in Texten die männliche Form verwendet wird, dient das lediglich der Lesbarkeit. Sie bezieht immer alle Menschen ein. McKinsey in Deutschland Select topics and stay current with our latest insights Select topics and stay current with our latest insights
Breaking News: Mayfair Equity Partners leads $41 million growth equity investment in EGYM to accelerate the digitization of the fitness and health industry. Learn More. Ready for the future of fitness technology? We spoke with hundreds of gym operators around the world about the impact of technology on their business. What did we learn? Find out in our latest white paper! We Provide Solutions for Operators Holistic solutions for fitness and health facilities of all sizes. Trainers Intelligent trainer tools for better member care and efficiency. Members Smart workouts and fitness apps built for everyone. And These Are Their Stories YMCA of Pikes Peak "I wouldn’t have guessed the response that we’ve got if I didn’t see it myself (...) I believe that we’ll have EGYM at all of our facilities." - Boyd Williams, CEO YMCA Testimonial YMCA of Silicon Valley "Members have been loving the egym equipment and circuit (...) our staff has been coming in on their own time to use it." - Victoria Bartz, Wellness Director YMCA Testimonial WindsorMeade “I know EGYM provides a safe opportunity for residents to have an effective fun workout. We have had a surge in machine usage.” Oakwood Leisure Centre "It will help us try and keep members for longer because they'll keep achieving." Testimonial Oakwood Leisure Centre King's School Recreation Centre "EGYM has definitely brought a new band of people to resistance machines (...) the machines aren't intimidating and just so easy to use." Testimonial The King's School Recreation Centre Club Kingswood "EGYM has enabled us to create a non-intimidating, accessible environment where anybody can complete regular, effective and safe resistance programs." Blackpool Sports Centre "A solution that enables non experienced users to train safely and effectively, utilizing the latest sports science." Impact of EGYM Member success is gym success: That is why we develop fitness technology with your gym-goer in mind and your gym at heart. Whether you are a non-profit facility or a boutique gym – we combine all our hard- and software into powerful solutions that tackle your specific business challenges. Workout Success + 29 % strength improvement in 3 months Staff Efficiency + 48 % increase in new member orientations Users > 13 M 13.000.000 users worldwide Workout Engagement + 20 % more gym visits from EGYM users Customer Loyalty + 83 % 17 % less churn with EGYM users Customers > 12 k 12.000 locations worldwide using EGYM solutions EGYM Workouts: Smart Training for Real People. Successful gyms are built with successful members. EGYM Workouts offers your members the latest generation of connected strength equipment and deep integration with leading cardio manufacturers worldwide, turning your fitness facility into a place where everyone feels welcome to achieve training success. Fitness Hub With Fitness Hub, onboarding couldn’t be easier: Excite members and staff alike with an intuitive experience that sets up all EGYM machines within seconds. Fitness Hub provides optimal staff support and helps members stay motivated with intuitive measurements and easy-to-understand progress visualizations—all right on the training floor. Smart Strength Our 18 EGYM Smart Strength machines offer customers an interactive and personalized training experience fully integrated with our digital products. Workouts are automatically tailored to your members and our machines adapt to their bodies when they sign in. Smart Cardio EGYM Smart Cardio enables your members to continue their fitness journey on numerous connected 3rd-party cardio machines that are fully integrated with our digital and workout solutions. Recurring cardio tests help create guided cardio exercises, and your activity syncs seamlessly across other EGYM hard- and software. EGYM Digital: Making Smarter Connections. EGYM Digital connects all your members' fitness activity in one place – the EGYM Cloud. Whether they're using our EGYM Workouts or tracking a backcountry hike on their wearable, EGYM Digital solutions combine and visualize all activity into engaging and motivating insights for members and trainers alike. Branded Member App With the new EGYM Branded Member App, you can represent your gym brand to the world with a unified and powerful mobile touchpoint. The design of the app can be fully customized to your requirements and matched with your corporate identity. Leverage powerful marketing features that will take your member engagement to the next level! EGYM Trainer Connective. Intuitive. Empowering. With the fully overhauled EGYM Trainer app, it just became that much easier for your trainers to guide and improve their member workouts. Save time organizing and focus on the essentials: improving your member care! EGYM Cloud: Connect To An Infinite World of Possibilities. In the gym and on-the-go, the EGYM Cloud is our platform for tracking member activity and delivering fully personalized fitness prescriptions to enable a genuinely connected training experience. The EGYM Cloud connects the training success of your members and pushes them into our suite of mobile applications. Body Analyser Strength Equipment Cardio Equipment Management Software Apps & Wearables Cloud Integrations From EGYM Smart machines to connected partner cardio equipment and management software, virtually everything in your facility can be connected via the EGYM Cloud. To date, over 100 partners worldwide connect to the EGYM Cloud, and their number is constantly growing. FEATURED IN Free White Paper Download! We spoke with hundreds of gym owners and operators worldwide to learn how they invest in tech. This content is hosted by a third party (%%host%%) and requires you to allow Marketing Cookies, which you currently have disabled. By showing the external content, you accept our use of Marketing Cookies and our Select Your Location Can't find your country? Check out our International page for distributors in your area! Copyright © 2021 EGYM
All CDTM Partners We closely work together with 25+ companies and institutions from industry, startup and public sector per year in our innovation projects. Contact us to find out more. Contact Us Carla Pregel Hoderlein Contact Us Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Subject Your Message
BECOME A PARTNER Digital natives develop future-proof business ideas with you Innovation Format: Trend Seminar Trend Seminar is a project-based course of seven weeks (full-time). CDTM students from interdisciplinary backgrounds conduct holistic trend research related to a specific topic. An extensive trend analysis leads to the creation of four future scenarios as well as five innovative business models. From idea to working prototype within three months Innovation Format: Managing Product Development Managing Product Development (MPD) is a project-based course throughout twelve weeks. Six teams of CDTM students focus on designing and developing new products and services including problem analyses, understanding customer needs and prototyping innovative products and services. Interdisciplinary teams provide strategic advice Innovation Format: Entrepreneurship Laboratory Entrepreneurship Laboratory (eLab) is a project-based course of twelve weeks. The student teams answer strategic business questions ranging from market entry strategy to a new pricing strategy for a SaaS product. As a project partner, this is your opportunity to receive innovative ideas and results tailored to your needs. Interdisciplinary teams put their creative minds to practice Custom Innovation Formats or Hackathons Elective courses build on highly innovative course formats, focusing on practical relevance and upcoming trends. Let highly motivated and interdisciplinary teams generate tangible outcomes within a short timeframe. Collaborate on Innovation Projects with CDTM Researchers Research Projects Research Projects Entrepreneurship Education Entrepreneurship Education Individualized Workshops Individualized Workshops Get in touch with us! If you are interested in collaborating with the CDTM, let’s talk! Contact Us Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Subject Your Message
SHARE YOUR EXPERTISE Domain experts within the CDTM curriculum We believe that in an innovation context, knowledge shared by domain experts trumps the theoretical studying of textbooks. Thus, we invite domain experts to spread their insights to the next generation of innovators. For our course formats we are continuously looking for experts in the following fields: Speakers for CDTM Future Leadership Series The CDTM Future Leadership Series (FLS) is a speaker series about leadership topics. At each FLS, one highly successful leader from business, politics or society provides unique insights into their career, leadership philosophy in an intimate fireside chat. Past speakers include Roman Herzog (Former President of Germany), Jeff Burton (Co-Founder Electronic Arts), Joe Kaeser (CEO Siemens), Philipp Rösler (Managing Director of World Economic Forum) and many more. Do you know inspiring leaders that would like to share their story in a CDTM Future Leadership event? Let’s talk! Speakers for CDTM Inspire&Dine The CDTM Inspire&Dine is an open TED-talk like evening with three to four inspiring speakers and 300+ ambitious students and young professionals. Speakers come from diverse fields and share a passion for technology, innovation, entrepreneurship and extraordinary stories. In the past, we have hosted professional violinists, business leaders, neuroscientists and AI-experts, who inspired the audience with their talks. Do you know inspiring personalities or would like to share your story in one of the next CDTM Inspire&Dine events? Let’s talk! Upcoming Inspire&Dine Events Contact Us Carla Pregel Hoderlein Contact Us Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Subject Your Message
CDTM ECOSYSTEM CDTM Events Come to one of the many events that we offer and get in touch with inspiring students, entrepreneurs or potential investors. Stay up to date about our events and follow us on Facebook. Sponsoring If you would like to position your brand or company within the CDTM ecosystem, you can become a sponsor and expose your brand to a high-potential audience: Friends of the CDTM If you would like to “give back” to the CDTM or simply would like to support an institution that helps talented students jump-start their career, there are several ways to do so: Contact Us Carla Pregel Hoderlein Contact Us Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Subject Your Message Affiliated Startups
TALENTS AT CDTM Students projects in the context of digital innovation We believe the best way to get to know one another is through work on innovative challenges. Every semester 10-15 industry partners are closely collaborating with our students on cutting-edge challenges as part of our innovation formats and convince one another with their know-how, philosophy and engagement. Find out more about our innovation formats. Get exposure within the CDTM community You would like to increase your presence at the CDTM and get in closer contact with our students and alumni? We offer you the following services to present your company or organization within the CDTM community and beyond: Please get in touch with us to get an individualized offers that suit your needs. Funding of PhD Positions PhD candidates conduct research as part of their dissertation project and are supervised by excellent CDTM Board Professors at either LMU or TUM. If you are interested in a comprehensive and holistic scientific overview of a topic of high relevance for your organization and industry funding a PhD position might be an interesting opportunity for you. Contact Us Carla Pregel Hoderlein Contact Us Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Subject Your Message
JOIN US! INTERESTED IN JOINING THE CDTM? Apply to the interdisciplinary add-on study program “Technology Management” to be one of the new students starting next semester. We are curious and happy to meet you and to maybe soon welcome you as a new member of CDTM. Find all the application requirements below. HOW TO APPLY HOW TO APPLY ADMISSION Every semester, approximately 25 students start their studies in „Technology Management“ at CDTM. All students go through a rigorous selection process consisting of an online written application and a personal interview. The two-stage interview process guarantees a high level of qualification of the students admitted to the program. DOCUMENTS During the application you will need the following: Before you start your application, please ensure you meet the formal requirements. DEADLINES Apply until May 30th 23:59 CET (fall term) for an intake in August and by November 30th 23:59 CET (spring term) for an intake in the following February. Applications open May 1st for the intake in August and November 1st for the intake in the following February. The upcoming Trend Seminar for the Class of Fall 2021 starts August 10th. More information can be found in our FAQs (“Program Structure”). Please submit your application via the online application system. Information events take place in November and May of every year. OPEN QUESTIONS? OPEN QUESTIONS? You are wondering how you can combine your studies with our Honors Degree in Technology Management? You have questions about the application process? You would like to meet current students and find out what it is like to study at the CDTM? Get to know us at our upcoming events or follow us on our social media channels to stay up to date! START TODAY! For your application please walk through the CDTM online application system and register as a new user.
YOUR WAY TO CDTM Visitor Address Center for Digital Technology and Management Marsstr. 20-22 80335 Munich, Germany CDTM is located on the ground floor. PDF Directions – How to find us POSTAL ADDRESS Center for Digital Technology and Management Arcisstr. 21 80333 Munich, Germany Communication Phone: +49 89 289 – 28567 Fax: +49 89 289 – 28459 info@cdtm.de
BECOME A PARTNER Digital natives develop future-proof business ideas with you Innovation Format: Trend Seminar Trend Seminar is a project-based course of seven weeks (full-time). CDTM students from interdisciplinary backgrounds conduct holistic trend research related to a specific topic. An extensive trend analysis leads to the creation of four future scenarios as well as five innovative business models. From idea to working prototype within three months Innovation Format: Managing Product Development Managing Product Development (MPD) is a project-based course throughout twelve weeks. Six teams of CDTM students focus on designing and developing new products and services including problem analyses, understanding customer needs and prototyping innovative products and services. Interdisciplinary teams provide strategic advice Innovation Format: Entrepreneurship Laboratory Entrepreneurship Laboratory (eLab) is a project-based course of twelve weeks. The student teams answer strategic business questions ranging from market entry strategy to a new pricing strategy for a SaaS product. As a project partner, this is your opportunity to receive innovative ideas and results tailored to your needs. Interdisciplinary teams put their creative minds to practice Custom Innovation Formats or Hackathons Elective courses build on highly innovative course formats, focusing on practical relevance and upcoming trends. Let highly motivated and interdisciplinary teams generate tangible outcomes within a short timeframe. Collaborate on Innovation Projects with CDTM Researchers Research Projects Research Projects Entrepreneurship Education Entrepreneurship Education Individualized Workshops Individualized Workshops Get in touch with us! If you are interested in collaborating with the CDTM, let’s talk! Contact Us Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Subject Your Message
Trend Seminar An entire CDTM class of students from interdisciplinary backgrounds conducts holistic trend research over seven week (full-time) related to a specific topic. An extensive trend analysis leads to the creation of four future scenarios as well as five innovative business models. You are looking for external input on digital trends and disruptive business models? Get in touch with us. How Trend Seminar Works Example Projects See all trendreports… Facts & Figures Contact Us Franz X. Waltenberger Testimonials Testimonials Andre HainzlmaierAudi Electronics Venture, Audi AG Andre Hainzlmaier Audi Electronics Venture, Audi AG “I was impressed by the creativity of the students and their enthusiasm for the project. […]Working with the students was extremely inspiring and also helped to step back and question the basic assumptions that are predominant in the industry. […] The work with the CDTM really showed the benefits of interdisciplinary and diversity to innovation. In order to come up with radically new lines of thought you have to create the kind of creative abrasion that is the basic idea behind the CDTM.” Martin BirknerSiemens AG Martin Birkner Siemens AG „The joint trend seminar […] has been a great success. We highly appreciated the motivation and professionalism of the students, something you cannot always expect at this level in such projects. […] Not just the results but also the discussions with the students have been very inspiring for us. […] Actually, we did not just use the results for defining R&D projects but also hired some of the students for internships and full-time employments.“
Trend reports elaborated by our students Trend Report Spring 2020 Public Administration in the Digital Era Our interaction with public and governmental institutions and processes have largely remained unaffected by new digital technologies. With an increasingly complex social environment and growing population of digital native citizens, new technologies provide an ideal starting point to enable – and even demand – a shift towards a digital public administration. This new environment requires government and public administration to re-evaluate its roles and responsibilities towards citizens in order to steer digitalisation into a direction in conformity with the social market economy. Their interaction with citizens – both digitally and personally – need to be evaluated and designed in a way to increase both efficiency, security and trust in public and governmental authorities. This report identifies current trends that affect the future of public administration until 2040 and derives four future scenarios as well as five related business ideas. Trend Report Fall 2019 Parentech – The Future of Parenting The advancement of technology and the increasingly dynamic environment have permeated all aspects of all our lives in simple and complex ways – even for children at young age which raises the question: To what extent has this changed parenting to-date, and what will raising children and the interaction between parents and their children look like in 20 years from today? Parents face many questions nowadays: What role does technology play for our child, and does this change the relationship between our child and us? What leisure activities and education should our child pursue at what age to be prepared for its future? How do our family values evolve? What way can we ensure to fulfil our responsibilities as a parent while looking after ourselves? This report identifies current trends that affect the future of parenting in the next twenty years and derives four future scenarios as well as five related business ideas. Trend Report Fall 2018 The Digital Future of the Construction Industry Digital technologies are constantly pushing us towards an ever more connected world and have a significant impact on our daily private and business life. Whereas our living environment becomes more and more reliant on digital technologies, the construction industry – responsible for building this environment – is still almost entirely detached from the digital age. However, with the increasing complexity of future cities, new technologies provide an ideal starting point to enable the shift towards a digital construction industry. This opens up new potentials for more efficient and sustainable construction processes on the one hand and new business opportunities for construction contractors on the other hand. This report identifies current trends that affect the digitization of the construction industry and derives four future scenarios as well as five related business ideas. Trend Report Spring 2018 Digital Companions in the factory of the future Digital technologies are constantly pushing us towards an ever more connected world and have a significant impact on our daily private life and business environment. Whereas we are already used to talking to our personal digital devices in the form of Siri, Alexa, or other voice and virtual assistants, our workplaces still heavily rely on non-personalized, manual processes. This is especially true for factory settings. Increasing complexity – due to individualized manufacturing – can be met with digital companion systems based on new technologies, such as Natural Language Processing and Artificial Intelligence. This opens up potentials for increased efficiency on the one hand and a more enjoyable working environment for employees on the other hand. But which technologies are best suited for digital companions? How are employees’ needs best addressed? Which data is available or needed? This report presents current trends in the field of manufacturing. Four scenarios are derived from these findings that vividly depict possible futures. In the final part, five business ideas are elaborated and validated in each of the four future scenarios. Trend Report Fall 2017 Customer Interaction in the Telco Industry Digital technologies are enabling an ever more connected world – in a private as well as business context – and have a significant impact on the telecommunications industry. Services are becoming more readily available and convenient for telco customers and businesses are able to optimize and automate processes. Increasing digitization, however, also leads to new and different customer expectations in B2C and B2B interactions. These developments lead to a growing urgency for innovative ways to turn insights on telco customer behavior into future-proof business models. This report presents current trends in the field of customer interaction in the telco industry. Four scenarios are derived from these findings that vividly depict possible futures. In the final part, five business ideas are elaborated and validated in each of the four future scenarios. Trend Report Spring 2017 Creating and Sustaining Healthy Habits The increasing concentration of living and working space in urban environments is making it more and more difficult for people from any age group to engage in sports activities and practice healthy nutrition. Furthermore, through an increasing digitization of our daily life and an increasingly connected world, the border between work and spare time is becoming more and more indistinguishable. These trends lead to a growing urgency for innovative ways to create and sustain healthy habits – taking into consideration how people eat, move, and live mindfulness. This report presents trends in the field of healthy habits. From these findings, four scenarios are derived that vividly depict possible futures. In the final part, five business ideas are elaborated that propose novel ways to address the above mentioned challenges. Trend Report Fall 2016 Digital Innovation in Diabetes Care Diabetes is a set of chronic metabolic diseases, in which the body can either not produce enough insulin or not process insulin correctly, resulting in raised levels of blood glucose. Diabetes not only has a high prevalence – currently affecting one out of eleven adults worldwide – but is also a very serious condition: In 2015, diabetes caused more adult deaths globally than HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria combined according, to the International Diabetes Federation. Current trends, such as the obesity pandemic, increasing life expectancy, and urbanization lead to a growing prevalence of the disease and the need for innovation in diabetes care. This report presents trends in the field of diabetes care. From these findings, four scenarios are derived that vividly depict possible futures. In the final part, five business ideas are elaborated and validated in each of the four scenarios. Trend Report Spring 2016 Fighting Hunger in the Digital Era The supermarket – the modern land of milk and honey! Located just around the corner, it provides us with a magnificent selection of food and beverages: fresh fruits and vegetables from all over the world, meat and fish in abundance, coffee from Brazil, rice from Thailand, beef from Argentina – every product available 24/7. For most inhabitants of the industrialized world, purchasing and consuming food is easy and convenient. No dirty hands, only a few dirty dishes. Food consumption has become so easy and cheap that it is done on an excessive level: since 1980, the number of obesity cases has doubled globally and reached more than 1.4 billion adults in 2008 according to the World Health Organization Fact sheet No. 311 (2012). This report presents trends in the field of fighting hunger. From these findings, four scenarios are derived that vividly depict possible futures. In the final part, five business ideas are elaborated and validated in each of the four scenarios. Trend Report Fall 2015 Entrepreneurship in Bavaria Entrepreneurship plays a crucial role in modern knowledge societies. Startup companies enter the market with novel products, services and business models, fostering innovation and economic development. A vibrant entrepreneurial ecosystem can be a major source of employment and contributes to the competitiveness of one’s economy. Acknowledging the importance of entrepreneurship, policy makers become increasingly involved in creating entrepreneurship-friendly environments. However, identifying suitable concepts for entrepreneurship support requires a thorough understanding of entrepreneurs’ requirements and recent trends in the entrepreneurship ecosystem. This study identifies recent trends in entrepreneurship and applies entrepreneurial means to come up with novel concepts for the creation of a more entrepreneurial-friendly ecosystem in Bavaria. Trend Report Spring 2015 The Future of Education Education is undergoing radical changes. While education used to be mainly frontally held lectures, digital technologies today allow for a wide range of new possibilities. Given the impact of education on society and considering recent developments and open questions, the importance of shedding some light on the future of education becomes obvious. This can be done by addressing three key questions: What are recent developments and key trends that shape the future of education? What could the educational world look like in the future? What are new educational products and services that can be introduced in the future, both in a commercial or non-profit context? The three sections of this report address these questions.
BRING IDEAS TO LIFE Managing Product Development (MPD) is a project-based course throughout twelve weeks. Six teams of CDTM students focus on designing and developing new products and services including problem analyses, understanding customer needs and prototyping innovative products and services. How MPD Works Example Projects Facts & Figures Contact Us Jose Adrian Vega Vermehren Testimonials Testimonials Sasha PaulBMW Sasha Paul BMW “We have really enjoyed the experience of working with such a talented team of the CDTM. We are proud to say, that we have never had so much fun while getting so many things done in such a short time. The final product is an ambitious outlook to the future. The heroic efforts of every single team member made this project a real success story.”
BRING IDEAS TO LIFE Managing Product Development (MPD) is a project-based course throughout twelve weeks. Six teams of CDTM students focus on designing and developing new products and services including problem analyses, understanding customer needs and prototyping innovative products and services. How MPD Works Example Projects Facts & Figures Contact Us Jose Adrian Vega Vermehren Testimonials Testimonials Sasha PaulBMW Sasha Paul BMW “We have really enjoyed the experience of working with such a talented team of the CDTM. We are proud to say, that we have never had so much fun while getting so many things done in such a short time. The final product is an ambitious outlook to the future. The heroic efforts of every single team member made this project a real success story.”
TACKLE BUSINESS PROBLEMS Entrepreneurship Laboratory (eLab) is a project-based course of twelve weeks. The student teams answer strategic business questions ranging from market entry strategy to a new pricing strategy for a SaaS product. As a project partner, this is your opportunity to receive innovative ideas and results tailored to your needs. How eLab Works Example Projects Facts & Figures Contact Us Elizaveta Felsche eLab+49 (0)176 97312166elab@cdtm.de Testimonials Testimonials Joachim SchonowskiDeutsche Telekom Joachim Schonowski Deutsche Telekom “The team developed an inspiring team spirit and organized themselves fully autonomously. They were quickly convinced from the project scope, worked extremely focused and integrated their thoughts and ideas. They developed an investor-proof business potential calculation and pitch presentation. We will use the results either for an internal project or a spin-off.” Lars StäbeMcKinsey & Company Lars Stäbe McKinsey & Company “Working with eLab teams is an amazing experience – the students are analytically razor sharp and know how to surprise with creative and sophisticated business ideas.”
CREATIVE MINDS IN ACTION Elective courses build on highly innovative course formats, focusing on practical relevance and upcoming trends. Let highly motivated and interdisciplinary teams generate tangible outcomes within a short timeframe. How Electives & Hackathons work Every semester, the CDTM offers 4-5 elective courses to our highly motivated students. Just like our core courses, all our elective courses are conducted together with partners from the industry or research, to tackle their relevant problems. Elective courses are designed to complement the core courses by offering students the opportunity to deepen their knowledge in an area of their choice. The course format can either range from a one-week hackathon to several sessions spread across the semester or semester break. We are open to your suggestions and the topics you would like to bring to the Center! The courses are continuously adapted to changing technologies and requirements. Contact Us Carla Pregel Hoderlein Example Projects Autonomous Drones Center Farming Elective Social Entrepreneurship Elective
RESEARCH PROJECTS CDTM engages in a number of publicly funded research projects and initatives related to innovation, entrepreneurship and education. These range from EU-funded educational initiatives to advance innovation in areas of high future relevance such as health care or food consumption to local initatives that do research at the intersection of digital technology and other economic and social aspects.
ENTREPRENEURSHIP EDUCATION How CDTM’s Train-the-Trainer Concept works We support aspiring higher-education institutions to build innovation study programs and spark the entrepreneurial spirit among their peers. Our offer includes: References Contact Us Aaron Defort Contact Us Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Subject Your Message
RESEARCH AT THE CDTM LEADING IN INNOVATION RESEARCH AND KNOWLEDGE DISSEMINATION Interdisciplinary research activities constitute an important branch of the CDTM. The interdisciplinary setting builds a fruitful foundation for a variety of research topics, as students, doctoral candidates and professors all bring in their expertise from different fields. In cooperation with various research partners, the CDTM realizes different research projects in the field of digital technology, both privately and publicly and funded. OUR RESEARCH TOPICS AND APPLICATION AREAS CDTM engages in a number of publicly funded research projects and initatives related to innovation, entrepreneurship and education. These range from EU-funded educational initiatives to advance innovation in areas of high future relevance such as health care or food consumption to local initatives that do research at the intersection of digital technology and other economic and social aspects. Digitalization and Innovation Digitalization and Innovation The focus of our research is how digitalization changes businesses in terms of innovation behaviour, implementation of new technologies and its impact on society. The projects are concentrated around the TIME-sector (telecommunication, information technology, media & entertainment), while setting a focus on applied output and prototype development with an entrepreneurial touch. EXAMPLE PROJECTS INNOVATION BEHAVIOR OF SMALL AND MEDIUM-SIZED ENTERPRISES IN GERMANY in collaboration with the Munich Center for Internet Research USING ARTIFICIAL NEURAL NETWORKS FOR IMAGE PROCESSING AND COMPUTER VISION IN AN INDUSTRIAL CONTEXT in collaboration with the Software Campus and Trumpf DEVELOPMENT OF A UX MEASUREMENT METHOD BASED ON MACHINE LEARNING in collaboration with the Software Campus and Holtzbrinck EXAMPLE PROJECTS EIT HEALTH ENTREPRENEURSHIP EDUCATION in collaboration with various EIT partners like the Karolinska Institute, IESE business school and Imperial College London EIT FOOD ENTREPRENEURSHIP EDUCATION in collaboration with Queens University Belfast and the University of Cambridge ENTREPRENEURSHIP4ALL@UBT in collaboration with the University of Bayreuth Entrepreneurship Education Entrepreneurship Education In addition to our research in digital transformation, the CDTM works to disseminate entrepreneurship education to students all over the world. We aim to transfer our leading interdisciplinary innovation program to aspiring educational institutions. Through CDTM’s Train-the-Trainer Concept we can help your institution to integrate innovative teaching formats in your study programs and spark the entrepreneurial spirit among your students. WORKSHOPS WORKSHOPS How will digital innovation impact your business? How are players in other fields harnessing the opportunities within the intersection of digital technologies, human-centered design and Design Thinking? Our experienced researchers in the field of digital innovation offer individualized workshops to equip you with notion, tools and confidence to drive change across your business. EXAMPLE PROJECTS Design Thinking Workshop for a small private bank RESEARCH ASPECTS RESEARCH ASPECTS Interdisciplinarity The research performed at CDTM builds on the interdisciplinary setting of the CDTM and integrates different perspectives, from economic and technical aspects to social, political, and ecological implications. Methodological Competence Research approaches highly build on our method know-how in the fields of innovation, entrepreneurship and digital technology (e.g. design thinking, prototyping, expert interviews) and are always problem-oriented. Applied Input and Output The practical and hands-on work performed at CDTM, allows for building protototypes or crawling data that builds the foundation for innovative research projects and helps to create practical-oriented outcome. INDIVIDUAL DISSERTATION TOPICS The CDTM management team consist of doctoral candidates who pursue their dissertation in different research fields and in cooperation with a variety of departments and institutions. Michael Fröhlich Aaron Defort Carla Pregel Hoderlein Theresa Doppstadt Franz X. Waltenberger Philipp Hulm Philipp Hofsommer Tom Schelo Amelie Pahl Elizaveta Felsche Anna-Sophie Liebender-Luc Jose Adrian Vega Vermehren Interested in engaging with CDTM research? We are always aiming to collaborate with motivated researchers and partner institutions to tackle issues in sustainability and society through the use of technology. Contact Us Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Subject Your Message
JOIN US! INTERESTED IN JOINING THE CDTM? Apply to the interdisciplinary add-on study program “Technology Management” to be one of the new students starting next semester. We are curious and happy to meet you and to maybe soon welcome you as a new member of CDTM. Find all the application requirements below. HOW TO APPLY HOW TO APPLY ADMISSION Every semester, approximately 25 students start their studies in „Technology Management“ at CDTM. All students go through a rigorous selection process consisting of an online written application and a personal interview. The two-stage interview process guarantees a high level of qualification of the students admitted to the program. DOCUMENTS During the application you will need the following: Before you start your application, please ensure you meet the formal requirements. DEADLINES Apply until May 30th 23:59 CET (fall term) for an intake in August and by November 30th 23:59 CET (spring term) for an intake in the following February. Applications open May 1st for the intake in August and November 1st for the intake in the following February. The upcoming Trend Seminar for the Class of Fall 2021 starts August 10th. More information can be found in our FAQs (“Program Structure”). Please submit your application via the online application system. Information events take place in November and May of every year. OPEN QUESTIONS? OPEN QUESTIONS? You are wondering how you can combine your studies with our Honors Degree in Technology Management? You have questions about the application process? You would like to meet current students and find out what it is like to study at the CDTM? Get to know us at our upcoming events or follow us on our social media channels to stay up to date! START TODAY! For your application please walk through the CDTM online application system and register as a new user.
TALENTS AT CDTM Students projects in the context of digital innovation We believe the best way to get to know one another is through work on innovative challenges. Every semester 10-15 industry partners are closely collaborating with our students on cutting-edge challenges as part of our innovation formats and convince one another with their know-how, philosophy and engagement. Find out more about our innovation formats. Get exposure within the CDTM community You would like to increase your presence at the CDTM and get in closer contact with our students and alumni? We offer you the following services to present your company or organization within the CDTM community and beyond: Please get in touch with us to get an individualized offers that suit your needs. Funding of PhD Positions PhD candidates conduct research as part of their dissertation project and are supervised by excellent CDTM Board Professors at either LMU or TUM. If you are interested in a comprehensive and holistic scientific overview of a topic of high relevance for your organization and industry funding a PhD position might be an interesting opportunity for you. Contact Us Carla Pregel Hoderlein Contact Us Your Name (required) Your Email (required) Subject Your Message
